S5 E1
Night
Stardate: 52081.2
Original Airdate: 14 October 1998

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
(A monochrome cloudless Earth hangs in black space. Welcome to a classic 1930s Flash Gordon style black and white cinema serial.)
CHAOTICA [OC]: Citizens of Earth! Your destiny is in my hands. Those of you who acquiesce to my demands will be treated fairly. Oppose me, and you face a dire fate indeed as my slaves in the mines of Mercury! You have one hour.
(The suave villan in his mandarin costume has a young man and a young woman tied to chairs.)
KIM: You'll never get away with this.
CHAOTICA: Oh, but I shall. Your once proud country will fall to its knees. How ironic that I am using your rocket ship to lead my space force into battle!.
KIM: You're wrong, Chaotica. Before you came on board, someone pushed the self-destruct button. In three minutes, we'll all be dead.
CHAOTICA: No!
(Enter our hero, with back pack and ray gun.)
PARIS: The jig is up, your Majesty.
CHAOTICA: Captain Proton.
PARIS: Spaceman First Class, Protector of Earth, scourge of intergalactic evil, at your service.
CHAOTICA: But I saw you fall into the fiery mouth of that volcano.
PARIS: It takes more than a little lava to stop Captain Proton. Now, I want you to call off your invasion and give me back my rocket ship.
(He frees Kim and the girl.)
CHAOTICA: There is one force in this universe that even you cannot defeat.
(The girl screams. The Doctor enters, the only person in colour.)
EMH: The same to you.
PARIS: Doc.
EMH: Mister Paris. I should have known it was you monopolising the holodeck.
CHAOTICA: Who is this insolent fool?
KIM: He's one of our men. Computer, adjust the Doctor's spectral frequency.
(The Doctor becomes monochrome.)
EMH: I have no interest in your frivolous fantasy. I'm here to rehearse a duet from Don Carlo and you've already gone three minutes into my scheduled
CHAOTICA: Enough! Robot, attack!
(The girl screams again. The Robot is a far cry from Robbie.)
CHAOTICA: Destroy them. Start with him.
EMH: Computer, freeze programme.
PARIS: Doc, this is the final chapter. Satan's Robot Conquers the World. We can't stop now.
EMH: Does the phrase to be continued mean anything to you?
PARIS: Your opera can wait.
EMH: This programme is a waste of photonic energy.
PARIS: Oh, really. Take a look around you. This is how the twentieth century saw the future. We are studying sociology.
EMH: Perhaps you can teach a course at Starfleet Academy. Satan's Robot - an Historical Overview.
(Paris and the EMH squabble over the holodeck controls until they start to burn.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Bridge to holodeck one. What's going on down there?
KIM [OC]: Oh, nothing, Commander. Just a little power surge.
CHAKOTAY: Says here the hologrid just blew out.
KIM [OC]: We're fixing it now, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Well, make it quick. The last thing we need is a broken holodeck.
(Seven of Nine enters.)
CHAKOTAY: Seven, I want good news. That's an order.
SEVEN: Then I must disobey. I have no good news to report. I've completed an astrometric scan of the entire region. There are no star systems within twenty five hundred light years.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing?
SEVEN: Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: Why can't we see stars beyond that?
SEVEN: There are heavy concentrations of theta radiation. It has occluded our sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Any other ships out there?
SEVEN: None. We are alone.
CHAKOTAY: Every sailor's nightmare.
SEVEN: Commander.?
CHAKOTAY: It's like being becalmed in the middle of the ocean. If it weren't for sensors we wouldn't even know we were at warp. We've only been crossing this expanse for two months and we're already feeling the strain. How do we last another two years?
SEVEN: We will adapt.
CHAKOTAY: Easier said than done.
SEVEN: Shall I inform the Captain of my findings?
CHAKOTAY: No. I'll tell her.

First Officer's log, Stardate 52081.2. It's been fifty three days since we entered this desolate region. If we want to continue our course toward home we have no choice but to cross it. We won't have an opportunity to take on fresh supplies or fuel, so I've ordered all departments to create an energy reserve. We're using power cells to stockpile deuterium.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: This won't be much of a briefing. There's nothing new to report.
CHAKOTAY: Humour me.
TORRES: All right, let's see. Warp core's at peak efficiency, just like last week, and the week before that. And my engineering staff is going stir crazy.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks. Ensign.
KIM: Nada.
CHAKOTAY: Can you be more specific?
KIM: All systems are operating within normal parameters.    
CHAKOTAY: Anything new on sensors?
TUVOK: I've detected a sudden increase in theta radiation in the vicinity.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: Unknown.
CHAKOTAY: Could be worth a look.
PARIS: Finally some excitement. Radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Next piece of business. Crew morale.
EMH: Deteriorating, obviously.
NEELIX: I have a few suggestions that might boost people's spirits.
CHAKOTAY: Please.
NEELIX: Rotate crew assignments. Add variety to the daily routine. I myself wouldn't mind squeezing in a little tactical training.
TUVOK: Noted.
NEELIX: And the holodecks have been in high demand. I was thinking we could install a few emitters in Cargo Bay two. Turn it into a third holodeck.
EMH: Hear, hear.
CHAKOTAY: See to it, Harry.
NEELIX: One other item, sir. A point of er, concern among some of the crew. It's, well, it's the Captain. She's been a bit elusive lately.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
NEELIX: People take comfort in talking to her. When they see that the Captain's happy, they're happy.
PARIS: Rumour has it she never leaves her quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Captain's privilege. She'll come to the bridge if and when she's needed.
TORRES: Spare us the protocol, Chakotay. It's pretty odd, you've got to admit it.
CHAKOTAY: It's her choice. She can run this ship from wherever the hell she wants to. Understood?
TORRES: Yeah. Sure.
CHAKOTAY: We're all feeling the pressure, including me.
KIM: Listen, maybe we've got the wrong attitude. Let's think of this as a two year vacation.
CHAKOTAY: Dismissed.
TORRES: That's a great idea, Harry.
PARIS: Wow, Harry. You're a real genius. How do you come up with these brilliant ideas?
KIM: You're such an optimistic guy.
(Chakotay returns to the bridge, to gaze at a completely black viewscreen.)

[Neelix's quarters]

(Neelix wakes with a start.)
NEELIX: Computer, lights! Maximum level! Bergamot tea, hot. First thing in the morning I replicate some curtains.

[Mess hall]

TORRES: Predictable. The Novokavich gambit. You always use that opening move.
PARIS: That's because you always fall for it.
TORRES: I feel like we've played this match a hundred times.
PARIS: Derada is a game of subtlety.
TORRES: Too subtle for me.
PARIS: Hmm. I'll bet.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: Well, if it doesn't involve Klingon pain sticks.
TORRES: Good night.
PARIS: There you go, just when I'm winning. Who's predictable?
TORRES: You don't want to start a fight with me now. Not at three a.m. 
(Neelix enters.)
PARIS: Three in the morning, four in the afternoon. What's the difference? You're angry twenty four hours a day.
TORRES: Everything is a joke to you.
NEELIX: Good evening. Or should I say good morning? Guess you couldn't sleep either.
PARIS: Oh, why sleep when we're having so much fun.
TORRES: He's joking, Neelix. We're all supposed to laugh.
NEELIX: I certainly am laughing, on the inside. Smiling, anyway. Let's start a new game. Cards? Maybe a little snack?
PARIS: No. I have a better idea. Why don't we make a schedule. A fight rotation. We can optimise our resources. I can start one, then you can start one.
NEELIX: Please.
TORRES: I am really tired of these games.
PARIS: Well then, don't play them.
NEELIX: Stop! You are senior officers! You are you are supposed to be setting an example for the rest. The rest of the crew.  
(Neelix is having trouble breathing.)
TORRES: Neelix?
PARIS: Paris to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: Some morale officer I turned out to be.
EMH: I've given you a mild sedative. It should control the urge to hyperventilate, and alleviate some of your anxiety.
NEELIX: Anxiety? Anxiety's what I feel when I burn a pot roast. This. This is more like.
EMH: Dizziness? Nausea? Unspeakable dread?
NEELIX: Yes.
EMH: Nihiliphobia. the fear of nothingness. Or in layman's terms, the fear of nothingness. If it's any consolation, I can relate to it. I go into a void every time I'm deactivated. Emptiness, complete and utter oblivion. I'll admit it was unsettling at first. The existential horror of it all.
NEELIX: You're not helping, Doctor.
EMH: Sorry. My point is, you'll get used to it.
NEELIX: I hope so.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Seven enters. Tuvok is looking at a star map whilst using his meditation lamp.)
SEVEN: Commander. Am I disturbing you.
TUVOK: No.
SEVEN: Is the Astrometrics lab designated for recreational use?
TUVOK: I come here to meditate. Needless to say, the view from my quarters has been less than stellar lately.
SEVEN: Astronomical phenomena help you to focus your mind.
TUVOK: Yes. I imagine that each star represents a single thought.
SEVEN: Meditation. It rejuvenates you?
TUVOK: Indeed it does.
SEVEN: I suggest you try Borg regeneration. It's much more efficient. A simple cortical implant would be required.
TUVOK: Another time, perhaps.
(The console beeps.)
TUVOK: What is it?
SEVEN: Long range sensors are detecting more theta radiation. Dangerously high levels.
TUVOK: Source?
SEVEN: Unknown.

[Janeway's quarters]

(The lighting is low.)
CHAKOTAY: It's probably nothing. Just background theta radiation. But it could mean there's someone nearby.
JANEWAY: Distance?
CHAKOTAY: Approximately twenty five light years.
JANEWAY: It's a long shot, but alter course.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: If that's all, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I'd like to make a request. I've been saving up my holodeck rations and I've got three full hours coming. Any chance I might persuade you to join me for a few rounds of Velocity? It'll help clear your mind.
JANEWAY: My mind is perfectly clear.
CHAKOTAY: And what if I told you I'm not leaving until you join me?
JANEWAY: I'd say, have a seat, it'll be a while.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll be blunt. You've picked a bad time to isolate yourself from the crew. This ship needs a Captain, especially now.
JANEWAY: Would you be satisfied with I'm just catching up on some reading? I'm not sure I understand it myself. It started when we entered this, what does the crew call it?
CHAKOTAY: The Void.
JANEWAY: Charming. Oh, what I wouldn't give for a few Borg cubes about now. Anything for a little distraction. Strange as it sounds, I almost long for the days when we were under constant attack. No time to stop and think about how we got stranded in the Delta quadrant. How did we end up here, Chakotay? Answer me.
CHAKOTAY: We were faced with a difficult choice. We had the means to get home but using it would've put an innocent people at risk, so we decided to stay.
JANEWAY: No. No, no. I decided to stay. I made that choice for everyone.
CHAKOTAY: We're alive and well, and we've gathered enough data about this quadrant to keep Starfleet scientists busy for decades. Our mission's been a success.
JANEWAY: The very same words I've been telling myself for the past four years. But then we hit this Void, and I started to realise how empty those words sound.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: I made an error in judgment, Chakotay. It was short-sighted and it was selfish, and now all of us are paying for my mistake. So if you don't mind, Commander, I'll pass on that little game. And I'll leave shipboard morale in your capable hands. If the crew asks for me, tell them the Captain sends her regards.

[Bridge]

(Kim is lounging in the Captain's chair, playing a soulful tune on his clarinet. Tuvok enters.)
KIM: Sir.
TUVOK: Relax, Ensign. Anything to report?
KIM: Not even a stray electron. But I did finish writing my concerto. I call it 'Echoes of the Void.' Got a minute?
TUVOK: Too many, in fact.
KIM: Tell me what you think.
(Kim starts playing again.)

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

PARIS: Now, when we last saw our heroes, they had just retaken their rocket ship. Doctor Chaotica had escaped, but he left behind his trusty robot to foil Captain Proton.
SEVEN: My designation?
PARIS: Ah, right. You're Constance Goodheart. You're my secretary.
SEVEN: Secretary.
PARIS: Yeah, you tag along on all the missions. Now, I want you to keep the robot occupied while I save Earth. Computer, run programme.
ROBOT: Citizen of Earth, surrender! Do not resist!
SEVEN: I am Borg.
ROBOT: Surrender.
(Seven opens the Robot's chest panel and pulls out its wires. It winds down and tilts forward.)
SEVEN: The robot has been neutralised. May I leave now?
PARIS: Come on, Seven. Give it a chance. The galaxy's at stake.

[Bridge]

(The ship judders.)
KIM: We've dropped out of warp. We're losing power.
TUVOK: Switch to auxiliary.
KIM: No effect.
(The power goes off all over the ship. A black vessel in black space.)
KIM: I was hoping for a change of pace, but a blackout isn't exactly what I had in mind. I'll try tapping into the energy reserves.

[Engineering]

MAN: Double check the radio relays.
(The warp core is dead.)
TORRES: Get inside those plasma injectors. Infuse them manually if you have to.

[Holodeck]

SEVEN: Lieutenant.
PARIS: Just a second. I'm not sure how to work this thing.
(He switches on a torch.)
PARIS: Captain Protein to the rescue! It's not exactly Starfleet issue. A ship-wide power loss? Everything's offline, main power, auxiliary.
SEVEN: Independent subsystems are operational. Environmental controls, holodecks. Reroute power from this holodeck to the emergency relays.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. No luck. The hologrid is frozen.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Neelix.
(Chakotay finds him cowering and gasping in a corner.)
NEELIX: Don't mind me.
CHAKOTAY: There's been a power loss. Nothing to worry about.
NEELIX: Who's worried?
CHAKOTAY: Come on. Take deep breaths nice and slow. That's it.

[Bridge]

KIM: Bingo. We've got partial sensors. I've found the cause of our power drain. It's some kind of dampening field. The source is off the port bow. That's about all I can tell you.
TUVOK: On screen. Do we have the power to launch a photon torpedo?
KIM: Maybe one, why?
TUVOK: Perhaps we could shed some light on our predicament. I'm reconfiguring the torpedo to emit a sustained polyluminous burst.
KIM: A warp flare.
TUVOK: Precisely.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

PARIS: I need something to pry open this hatch.
(Paris's torch illuminates a strange little alien. It rushes at him, stunning him with an energy weapon.)
SEVEN: Computer, disengage safety protocols!
(Seven grabs the ray gun and shoots the intruder.)

[Corridor]

NEELIX: I saw something, over there. I'm telling you, I saw something. I may be nihiliphobic but my eyes work just fine. I can hear breathing.
(Chakotay's wrist beacon lights up another alien. Someone phasers it in the back as it rushes them. It runs away.)
JANEWAY: Follow me.
(She is toting a phaser rifle.)
NEELIX: Yes, ma'am.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Torpedo reconfigured. Away.
(It lights up three ships.)

[Engineering]

TORRES: I can barely see the injector ports. How about a little light over here?
JANEWAY: We can do better than that. This power cell should be enough to get emergency power back online.
TORRES: Up here. We'll hook it up directly to the EPS manifold.

[Bridge]

KIM: Emergency power just came back. We've got tactical.
TUVOK: Raising shields.

[Engineering]

TORRES: The warp core's online.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge, report.
TUVOK [OC]: The dampening field has been blocked, Captain. We are surrounded by three alien vessels.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Seventeen intruders are on board.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: The ships aren't responding to hails.
CHAKOTAY: We do have weapons online.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, target the ship off our port bow. Fire a few warning shots.  
(The ship returns fire.)
TUVOK [OC]: Shields down to sixty four percent.
CHAKOTAY: Do we have propulsion?
TORRES: Not yet.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: He was attacked by an intruder.
EMH: These burns are severe.
SEVEN: I disabled the alien. It may still be alive.
EMH: Bring it to Sickbay.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shields are down.
KIM: They're reinitialising the dampening field. We're losing power.

[Engineering]

NEELIX: Not again.  
(The lights drop then return.)
CHAKOTAY: They've stopped their attack. They're beaming off the ship.

[Bridge]

KIM: There's another vessel approaching.
(It has all guns blazing at the three ships. They fly away.)
KIM: We're being hailed.
TUVOK: On screen. I'm Lieutenant Commander Tuvok of the Federation.
(Their saviour is a round-faced humanoid with widely spaced nostrils.)
EMCK [on viewscreen]: I had to fire thirteen spatial charges to drive those ships off. I expect to be compensated.
TUVOK: Of course.
EMCK [on viewscreen]: Now tell me, what are you doing in the middle of nowhere?

[Transporter room]

(They are having issues beaming Emck aboard.)
TUVOK: The biofilters are detecting high levels of theta radiation.
(Emck solidifies.)
JANEWAY: Compensate. Welcome aboard. I'm afraid we'll have to talk here. You appear to be leaking.
EMCK: Yes, yes, my isolation suit. Don't be alarmed.
CHAKOTAY: We prefer to be on the safe side, Mister?
EMCK: Emck. Controller Emck. Malon export vessel, eleventh gradient.
JANEWAY: It's a pleasure to meet you, and a relief.
EMCK: I'd advise you to turn around immediately. There are more of those creatures ahead, thousands of vessels. They're almost impossible to detect. You won't survive another attack.
JANEWAY: We can't go back. We're crossing this expanse to reach our home.
EMCK: Then, er, it appears you'll be coming with me.
TUVOK: What do you mean?
EMCK: There's a spatial vortex a few light years from here. It leads directly to the other side of the expanse. We've been using it for years.
CHAKOTAY: That would get us out of the Void, and cut two years off our journey home. 
JANEWAY: Well, thank you again. I'm curious, Mister Emck. What are you doing here, besides rescuing starships in distress?
EMCK: Ah, I'm on a transport mission. My sensors tell me that one of the creatures is still aboard your ship.
CHAKOTAY: It was injured during the attack. Our doctor's treating it.
JANEWAY: Why?
EMCK: Enough questions. Give me the creature and I'll take you to the vortex.
JANEWAY: Oh, my apologies, Mister Emck, but I'd like to know what's going on here. Are you at war with these beings?
EMCK: None of your concern.
JANEWAY: Your vessel seems to be leaking large amounts of theta radiation. What kind of transport mission are you on, exactly?
EMCK: My ship will depart in two hours. Cooperate or stay behind. I won't be coming to your rescue when the creatures return. I'm finished here.
(Janeway nods, and Tuvok beams Emck back to his ship.)
JANEWAY: I think it's time we heard the other side of the story.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Watch your step, I've had to lower the lights. My patient is extremely photosensitive.
CHAKOTAY: That could explain why they dampened our power.
EMH: My feelings exactly. From what I can tell this life form may be indigenous to the Void. His physiology has evolved to survive in complete darkness.
JANEWAY: His condition?
EMH: Minor injuries. Phaser wounds to the chest and neck. But that's the least of his problems. He's dying, Captain. Every organ is degrading at the cellular level.
(Patient biomedical status - cellular degradation 13.47 theta radiation levels 253.47 - 809.47)
JANEWAY: Theta radiation poisoning.
EMH: The final stages. My guess is he's been exposed to it over a long period. There's nothing I can do.
JANEWAY: I'd like a word with him. I'm Kathryn Janeway, captain of this vessel.
NIGHT ALIEN: You are allied with the Malon.
JANEWAY: No. We're simply trying to cross this region. We never met the Malon before today.
NIGHT ALIEN: They will want me.
JANEWAY: Well, I have no intention of giving you to them. You're not a captive here. Doctor. Are you at war with the Malon?
NIGHT ALIEN: Their ships are poison.
JANEWAY: The theta radiation.
NIGHT ALIEN: They're killing us.
JANEWAY: Why? What do they want from you?
NIGHT ALIEN: Nothing.
EMH: This will help alleviate the pain.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
NIGHT ALIEN: We were ignorant. We attacked you. Forgive us.
JANEWAY: Of course. But I need to understand. You say the Malon are killing your people. There must be a reason.
NIGHT ALIEN: They're poisoning our space. We don't know why.
EMH: He's in respiratory distress. We need to get him back to his people. They might know how to treat him.
NIGHT ALIEN: I will show you how.
JANEWAY: I need a workstation. Route it to the helm. If you enter the coordinates, my pilot will set a course.
NIGHT ALIEN: I am grateful.
JANEWAY: Take the bridge. I'll stay here.
CHAKOTAY: We still don't have a defence against their dampening field. If they decide to attach again.
JANEWAY: I'm confident they won't. Finally, something to put in my logbook.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: I need your advice.
TUVOK: A first.
CHAKOTAY: Look, I realise we're not exactly best friends. From day one, we've kept each other at arm's length. But I've always respected your judgment and right now, I could use a little Vulcan clarity.
TUVOK: Proceed.
CHAKOTAY: It's the Captain. As you may have noticed, she's isolated herself from the crew.
TUVOK: She believes that she made an error in judgment four years ago. That she's responsible for stranding Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: She told you?
TUVOK: No. I've been observing her behaviour for the past four years. Guilt has been her constant companion.
CHAKOTAY: You've known her longer than anyone. Have you ever seen her like this?
TUVOK: Only once. It was during her first year as a Commander on the USS Billings. She sent an away team to survey a volcanic moon. Their shuttle was damaged by a magma eruption and three crew members were severely injured. The next day she returned to the moon alone to complete the survey. She wanted the crew to know that their suffering had not been in vain. She could have been killed.
CHAKOTAY: Seeking redemption.
TUVOK: Precisely. Captain Janeway's methods are unorthodox. It is her strength as a leader, but unfortunately, it is also her greatest weakness.
CHAKOTAY: Stubborn as a Klingon.
TUVOK: To put it mildly.
CHAKOTAY: If she tries something like that again I want to be ready and I'm going to need your support.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're at the coordinates.
CHAKOTAY: All stop. Shields up. Tuvok.
TUVOK: Nothing on sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Captain.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've arrived.
JANEWAY: Stand by.
NIGHT ALIEN: They're here, but I must tell them you are a friend. Your communications system?
(Janeway helps him tap on a console.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm picking up photonic surges. They're all around us.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've got company. Eight ships, twelve more approaching.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Let's run a full bioscan.
NIGHT ALIEN: We have lived here for millions of years, undisturbed until the Malon came.
EMH: Captain, every one of them seems to be suffering from theta radiation exposure.
NIGHT ALIEN: We tell them they are killing us. They won't listen. We tried to stop them. They're too strong!
JANEWAY: What about the vortex? Can you close it, keep them out?
NIGHT ALIEN: We don't know how. Your ship is powerful, your people resourceful. We need your help.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Captain. They're locking onto the alien in sickbay.
JANEWAY: Lower the shields.
NIGHT ALIEN: Will you help us? (The night alien is beamed away.)

[Astrometrics lab]

(They are watching the Malon ship spewing out vomit green gas.)
JANEWAY: Poison.
SEVEN: The vessel is ejecting massive quantities of contaminated antimatter.
CHAKOTAY: Their cargo holds are loaded with it. Over ninety million isotons.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
EMCK [on screen]: Captain. You've decided to join us. Send the creature to my
JANEWAY: That won't be possible. We've returned him to his people. You wanted the lifeform because you were afraid we'd uncover your transport mission.
EMCK [on screen]: I said this was none of your concern.
JANEWAY: Well, it is now. You're using their space as a dumping ground for your antimatter waste. Why?
EMCK [on screen]: My civilisation produces over six billion isotons of industrial by-product every day. This region is a perfect disposal site.
CHAKOTAY: How convenient, for you. A spatial vortex to the middle of nowhere, far away from your own system. Out of sight, out of mind. Problem is, somebody lives here.
EMCK [on screen]: One species.
JANEWAY: One's enough. We didn't come here to debate the issue. We came here to offer a peaceful solution.
EMCK [on screen]: What kind of solution?
JANEWAY: My people use anti-matter as well, but we've found ways to purify the reactants so there's no toxic waste. We'll show you.
CHAKOTAY: Guide us through the vortex. We can meet with your scientists on the other side, exchange information.
EMCK [on screen]: Show me now.
JANEWAY: Stand by for transport. Commander, take our guest to Engineering. Give him a demonstration. Let's turn our sensors on that vortex. I want to know exactly how it works, just in case diplomacy fails.
SEVEN: Do you intend to destroy it?

[Engineering]

TORRES: The residual anti-matter is then processed in the transkinetic chamber, where it's broken down on the subatomic level.
EMCK: What about the theta radiation?
TORRES: Oh, it's absorbed by a series of radiometric converters. We recycle the energy, use it to power everything from life support to replicators.
EMCK: We don't have this kind of conversion technology.
TORRES: Our scans of your freighter show that you have plasma manifolds. The engineering principles are the same.
CHAKOTAY: We're not saying this won't take some effort. You're looking at several months of retrofitting, depending on the size of your fleet. All the schematics are here, and we'd be willing to work with you, get you started. We can even provide you with some converters.
EMCK: Ingenious design. Our engineers would be pleased. This would solve a lot of problems on my world. Unfortunately, it would also put me out of business.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry?
EMCK: Your technology would throw the waste export industry into chaos. Before long, I'd be obsolete. I came here hoping your claims were exaggerated, but I can see they're not. You can keep your solution.
TORRES: You lying
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES: We went through this whole song and dance and he never had any intention of working with us.
CHAKOTAY: That's not important. What matters is that we're talking now. We're proposing changes, some of them difficult, but progress can also bring new opportunities. Given time, this could turn to your advantage.
EMCK: I already have the advantage. The vortex. No one knows about it except me and my crew. By ejecting my cargo here I cut expenses in half. I won't sacrifice that.
TORRES: I guess mass murder doesn't factor into your profit margin.
EMCK: You care so much about these creatures, stay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry you won't listen to reason, but don't expect us to walk away from this.
EMCK: You've scanned my vessel. You've seen my fire power. You wouldn't survive ten seconds in a conflict with me.
CHAKOTAY: Get him out of here.
EMCK: Pah!

[Janeway's quarters]

(A schematic of the vortex is on her desk monitor.)
JANEWAY: Options?
CHAKOTAY: We fight our way past them. Navigate the vortex on our own. Once we're on the other side we contact the Malon authorities and blow the whistle on Emck.
JANEWAY: We give them the reclamation technology, and continue on our way home.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Even if we did get through the vortex, there's no guarantee the Malon will do the right thing, if Mister Emck is any indication. As long as this vortex exists, the inhabitants of this region are at risk.
CHAKOTAY: Any chance we could destroy it?
JANEWAY: I believe so, but there's a catch. We'll have to collapse it from this end, where it's dimensional radius is weakest. We'd be closing our short-cut out of here.
CHAKOTAY: Two more years in the Void. I can live with that.
JANEWAY: But I'm not sure I can. Four years ago I destroyed the Caretaker's array to protect the Ocampa. That act of compassion stranded this crew in the Delta quadrant. I'm not about to give that order again.
CHAKOTAY: This situation is a little different.
JANEWAY: It's close enough. I'm asking this crew to make too big a sacrifice. I won't make that same mistake.
CHAKOTAY: If you have another option, I'm listening.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, there's no one I trust more than you. You're a fine First Officer. Are you ready to Captain this ship?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
JANEWAY: Assemble the crew.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain on the bridge. 
(Everyone is there. Neelix, Seven, the EMH, Torres.)
JANEWAY: At ease. Harry, how've you been?
KIM: Just find, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Good.
NEELIX: We've missed you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Likewise. I'll make this brief. Your orders are to proceed to the vortex. Use whatever means necessary to fight your way past the Malon freighter. I'll stay behind in a shuttlecraft and destroy the vortex. Tuvok, I'll need a class two shuttle armed with photon torpedoes. Tom, set a course for
TORRES: Forget it. We're not going to let you die out here.
JANEWAY: Have a little faith, B'Elanna. I'll have a shuttle, plenty of rations. I'll survive.
PARIS: Alone in the Delta quadrant? No offence, but
JANEWAY: I've made my decision.
KIM: What about us? Don't we have a say?
NEELIX: He's right, Captain. I'd be willing to brave this Void if it meant keeping you with us.
JANEWAY: Tom, set a course.
(Paris keeps his arms folded.)
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, I gave you an order.
PARIS: I can't follow that order, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Harry, take the helm.
KIM: I'm sorry, Captain.
SEVEN: I will not comply.
EMH: What's a hologram to do?
TUVOK: As you can see, you're not the only one who's had time to evaluate the past.
JANEWAY: Yes, I can see that. You realise you could all be hanged for mutiny.? Looks like we need another option.
CHAKOTAY: We fire torpedoes the instant we cross the threshold. As the vortex begins to collapse, we jump into high warp.
JANEWAY: There'll be a massive shock wave on our tail.
TORRES: I'll reinforce the aft shielding.
JANEWAY: There's still one obstacle. The Malon.
TUVOK: Antimatter waste has weakened the bulkhead surrounding their cargo hold. A direct phaser strike should disable them.
EMH: Poetic justice.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: You realise it will reduce our chance of getting through.
SEVEN: Chance is irrelevant. We will succeed.
EMH: A vote of Borg confidence. Who could argue with that?
JANEWAY: All right. Back to your stations. Let's do it.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Set a course to the vortex. All hands to battle stations.
JANEWAY: You told them. They knew coming in.
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say I wouldn't be a fine First Officer if I hadn't.
(A short time later, Voyager is flying through explosions.)
JANEWAY: Return fire. Hit them with everything we've got.
TUVOK: Their shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Voyager. Stand down your weapons and fall back. (Whumph!) I'll take that as a no.
CHAKOTAY: The vortex.
PARIS: Two million kilometres dead ahead.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering, we're approaching the vortex. 

[Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: Bring the aft shielding online.
TORRES: Acknowledged. See you on the other side.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Status.
KIM: The port nacelle's been ruptured. We're venting plasma.
JANEWAY: Can you get us out of here on one engine, Tom?
PARIS: I think so.
TUVOK: Torpedoes armed and ready.
JANEWAY: On my order, Tuvok. We'll only get one shot at this.
SEVEN: They're firing spatial charges.
JANEWAY: Evade them.
(Paris rolls Voyager through the explosions and heaves a sigh of relief.)
SEVEN: Captain Proton to the rescue.
PARIS: I'll explain later.
TUVOK: The vortex is in visual range.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept?
PARIS: Forty seven seconds.
JANEWAY: Steady as she goes. Keep laying down fire.
KIM: Direct hit, starboard nacelle.
PARIS: Both engines are offline. We're running on inertia. One more hit and we're dead in the water.
CHAKOTAY: Without warp drive we'll never outrun the shockwave.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you reinforce the aft shields with our main deflector?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Do it. We're going to ride that shockwave out of here. Let it push us to the other side.
TUVOK: Adjusting shield harmonics.
SEVEN: Captain. They intend to block our path.
PARIS: Twenty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Prepare to fire.
TUVOK: That may not be necessary.
(Night alien ships come in, weapons firing at the Malon freighter. One ship goes KaBOOM.)
SEVEN: The freighter is moving to combat the aliens.
CHAKOTAY: They're trying to distract the Malon, give us the upper hand.
PARIS: Ten seconds!
TUVOK: The freighter's shields are weakening.
JANEWAY: Target their cargo hold. Time to take out the garbage.
(Six torpedoes rip into the freighter. Big green KaBOOM!)
PARIS: We're crossing the threshold.
JANEWAY: Torpedoes.
(Three torpedoes detonate behind Voyager.)
SEVEN: Shockwave approaching. Six hundred metres. Five hundred. Four.
TUVOK: Aft shields at maximum.
JANEWAY: All hands, brace for impact!
(The shockwave hits.)
TUVOK: Pressure is building on the outer hull. Shields weakening.
(Voyager stops moving.)
PARIS: We're clear.
SEVEN: The vortex has been destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: Are we out of the Void?
KIM: Not yet. That little manoeuvre brought us up a bit short. We're still two hundred thousand kilometres from the boundary.
JANEWAY: On screen. Maintain course.
(A little later, the EMH and Torres enter,)
PARIS: There.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: I saw something. A star.
EMH: Remind me to check your eyesight.
(Consoles start beeping. A single light flashes on the viewscreen, then two, four. Voyager glides into a space full of colourful gaseous anomalies.)
JANEWAY: Harry, what do you see out there?
KIM: I see a densely packed region with thousands of star systems. It looks pretty lively.
JANEWAY: Full speed ahead.


S5 E2
Drone
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 21 October 1998

[Cargo Bay two]
(Seven is practising smiling in a mirror when the Doctor enters.)
EMH: Seven of Nine. How's my favourite Borg today?
SEVEN: Annoyed. In the future you will announce your presence before entering this room.
EMH: Sorry. I guess I should have knocked first.
SEVEN: Are we ready to leave?
EMH: Yes. According to sensors, spatial conditions are ripe. A spontaneous protonebula could emerge within the next twenty minutes. Mister Paris is expecting us.
(He looks in the mirror himself.)
EMH: Hmm. Not a bad looking hologram.

[Corridor]

EMH: This should be exciting, don't you think?
SEVEN: It's an astronomical survey, nothing more. What is your function on this mission?
EMH: My function is to study the nebula's effects on the crew. We may be dealing with new forms of radiation. I can't wait to see one of these clouds take shape. I hear they're quite beautiful. I brought along a holo-imaging device to take a few snapshots.
SEVEN: This isn't shore leave. There will be no time for recreational activities.
EMH: The Borg, party poopers of the galaxy. Tomorrow we'll start you on a new social exercise. Developing your joie de vivre.

[Shuttlecraft]

(The shuttlecraft is quite crowded, and the flight is not smooth.)
PARIS: Sorry about that. Just a little spatial turbulence. Nothing to worry about.
(Another jolt sends Torres onto the EMH's lap.)
EMH: Hello there.
TORRES: I don't know about you, but I've got a case of class two claustrophobia.
PARIS: Ah, I remember it well.
SEVEN: Lieutenant?
TORRES: Oh, that's what Starfleet cadets used to call these class two shuttles. Fast, manoeuvrable, but not built for comfort.
PARIS: They used to shoehorn half a dozen cadets into one of these things for weeks at a time. You did not want to be around when they opened up that airlock.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should design a new shuttle. Larger, more efficient.
TORRES: Not a bad idea.
SEVEN: I'm reading plasma surges off the port bow.
(A red nebula bursts into existance.)
TORRES: All stop. Keep our distance.
EMH: Seven, move over by the helm. I want to get a group shot.
SEVEN: I'm busy.
EMH: And smile, like I know you can.
TORRES: What was that?
SEVEN: Another plasma surge.
TORRES: It's massive! Tom, back us off. We're caught in the gravimetric shear!
PARIS: Engines are down.

[Bridge]

KIM: We're receiving a distress call from the away team.
TUVOK: They've been engulfed in the shearline of the nebula.
JANEWAY: Full impulse. Bridge to transporter room one. Standby for emergency beamout.

[Transporter room]

MULCHAEY: I've got a partial lock on them, but unless the shuttle clears that nebula.
CHAKOTAY: It won't. They've lost propulsion.
MULCHAEY: Then it's going to be a rough transport.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.
MULCHAEY: I'm having trouble separating their patterns.
CHAKOTAY: Reset the pattern buffers.
MULCHAEY: The signals are clearing.
(Four people solidify.)
CHAKOTAY: Is everyone all right?
(The EMH glitches.)
EMH: My emitter. It's been damaged.
TORRES: I'll transfer your programme back to Sickbay. Hang on.
(The mobile emitter falls to the deck.)
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to transporter room one. Report.
TORRES: It looks like some of your emitter circuits were fused during transport.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Can you repair it?
TORRES [OC] Most likely. I'll need to run a diagnostic.
EMH: Most likely?

[Transporter room]

TORRES: Relax, Doctor. I'll keep you posted. Mulchaey.

[Science lab]

TORRES: Computer, run diagnostic routine alpha three six.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic in progress.
TORRES: First thing in the morning, I want you to check the results.
MULCHAEY: I'll be here bright and early.
(They leave. The emitter sparkles, then Borg assimilation tubes start to grow out of it and latch onto the diagnostic console.)

Captain's log, supplemental. This protonebula seems to have a mind of its own. It's still expanding, with no end in sight. We're holding at a safe distance to monitor its growth.

[Torres' quarters]

EMH [on monitor]: Rise and shine, Lieutenant. It's oh six hundred hours. Early bird gets the gagh!
TORRES: What do you want?
EMH [on monitor]: Good morning would be nice, but I'd settle for my mobile emitter. Do we have an ETA on those repairs?
TORRES: Go away.
EMH [on monitor]: Can't you at least give me a prognosis?
TORRES: The one day I get to sleep in.
EMH [on monitor]: You're worried about a few more seconds of unconsciousness? My freedom is at stake!
(Torres gets up and turns off the monitor. She goes into the bathroom.)
TORRES: Computer, activate sonic shower.
EMH [on bathroom monitor]: One more thing, Lieutenant. I was thinking
(Torres grabs a towel for modesty.)
TORRES: Hey!
EMH [on bathroom monitor]: I'm a doctor, not a peeping Tom. It's nothing I haven't seen before. I was thinking

[Doctor's office]

EMH: If you brought the emitter to Sickbay we could work on it together. I've prepared a. Hello? B'Elanna?
(Torres has draped the towel over the monitor.
Meanwhile, the science lab console now has Borg instrumentation on it instead of Federation.)

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven wakes suddenly and steps out of her alcove.)
COMPUTER: Regeneration cycle incomplete.

[Bridge]

KIM: Commander. How'd you sleep?
CHAKOTAY: Well enough. What's new?
KIM: That nebula's expanding at a rate of eight thousand cubic kilometres per hour. I've had to adjust course eleven times.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like you're enjoying the big chair.
KIM: It's not a bad way to spend the night.
CHAKOTAY: I hear you've been doing a fine job. The crew's impressed. Is it true you make them call you Captain Kim?
(Seven enters.)
KIM: Sir?
CHAKOTAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: That remains to be seen.
CHAKOTAY: Problem?
SEVEN: The proximity transceiver in my cranial implant has been activated. That could indicate a Borg presence nearby.
CHAKOTAY: Harry?
KIM: I've been running sensor sweeps all night. I haven't seen anything.
SEVEN: Perhaps the nebula is masking a vessel.
KIM: No, not a chance. A ship wouldn't last ten seconds in there. Not even a Borg cube.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it's a false alarm. Your transceiver could be malfunctioning.
SEVEN: It is possible.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you pay a visit to Sickbay. In the meantime we'll redouble our scans, just to be sure.
SEVEN: Very well.
KIM: I'll get the scans underway.
CHAKOTAY: If you don't mind being an Ensign again. (Mulchaey arrives for duty at the science lab. He enters the green lit room carefully and starts scanning with his tricorder. But he gets too close, and tubules lance into his neck.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: My proximity transceiver activated again.

[Bridge]

KIM: Looks like someone's rerouting power from the warp conduits.
CHAKOTAY: To where?
KIM: Deck eight, section twenty two. The science lab.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to science lab. Ensign Mulchaey, respond. Harry.
KIM: Sensors are being deflected by some kind of forcefield. Commander, the forcefield has a Borg signature.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Captain to the bridge. Tuvok, take a security team to the science lab. Chakotay to Seven of Nine, looks like you were right.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've detected Borg on the ship. Deck eight, science lab.
SEVEN: How many drones?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Unknown, Tuvok's headed there now.
SEVEN: I will join him.
EMH: The science lab? My mobile emitter's in there.

[Science lab]

(Tuvok and his team are armed with big rifles. Seven has a hand phaser. The doors are not fully closed, so they pull them apart. There is a new piece of equipment in the lab, a hexagonal container with lots of tubes running into it.)
SEVEN: This technology resembles a Borg maturation chamber, but many of the components are unfamiliar.
CREWMAN: Commander.
(They have found Mulchaey. He is still alive.)
SEVEN: He was punctured by an extraction tubule. It removed a tissue sample. There are residual nanoprobes surrounding the wound. Their encoding sequences are identical to my own.
TUVOK: Your nanoprobes? How?
SEVEN: I don't know.
TUVOK: Take him to Sickbay. (Mulchaey is helped out of the lab. Seven approaches the chamber.)
TUVOK: What are you doing?
SEVEN: I will be recognised as Borg.
(She steps through the forcefield, and opens an iris to see inside the chamber.)
SEVEN: A drone, but unlike any I've ever seen.
TUVOK: It appears to be in the foetal stage.
SEVEN: I don't understand. The Borg assimilate. They do not reproduce in this fashion.
(Later, the Captain has arrived. We see from the foetus' perspective.)
JANEWAY: Where did it come from?
SEVEN: I believe it was created here in the science lab. When the away team beamed back to Voyager there was a transporter malfunction. Our patterns merged briefly. It is possible that some of my nanoprobes infected the Doctor's mobile emitter.
TUVOK: They began to assimilate?
SEVEN: Yes.
(Back to a normal view inside the lab.)
SEVEN: Nanoprobes are encoded to utilize any technology they encounter. Once it assimilated the emitter, it began to transform this diagnostic station. When Ensign Mulchaey entered the room, they sampled his DNA.
JANEWAY: Using his genetic code as a template to create a lifeform.
TUVOK: The drone has increased in mass by seventeen percent.
SEVEN: Its maturation rate is twenty five times that of a conventional Borg.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, erect a level ten forcefield around this section. Post round the clock security.
TUVOK: You intend to let it mature?
JANEWAY: The alternative is to pull the plug, and I'm not prepared to do that. Not unless I have to. Resume your analysis. I want to know exactly what we're dealing with here. Or should I say whom?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've adapted the Astrometrics sensors to penetrate the Borg forcefield.
TORRES: I thought you said this thing was a foetus.
SEVEN: An hour ago it was. The drone has entered the fourth phase of gestation. In human terms, it is a child of six years.
EMH [on monitor]: You mean a boy of six years. From what I can tell the drone is male. Seven, route your sensor data to Sickbay. I want to run a few medical scans.
SEVEN: Stand by.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Well, he appears to be human for the most part. Borg implants comprise approximately

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH [OC]: Twenty seven percent of his body.
TUVOK: Curious. His body plating is composed of polydeutonic alloy
EMH [on monitor]: Just like my mobile emitter.
SEVEN: The nanoprobes must have extrapolated that technology. It could explain his unique design.
TORRES: Wait a minute. The Doctor's emitter came from the twenty ninth century. It's five hundred years more advanced that anything we've got.
TUVOK: It is logical to assume this drone will be equally advanced.
TORRES: A twenty ninth century Borg.
TUVOK: In essence.
EMH [on monitor]: I've located my mobile emitter. It's embedded in his cerebral cortex.
SEVEN: The emitter has been adapted to serve as part of his central nervous system. It controls all autonomic functions.
EMH: That means we can't remove it. Not without killing the drone.
TUVOK: Has it contacted the Borg Collective?
SEVEN: No. I have dampened it's proximity transceiver.
TORRES: For now. What about when it grows up?

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Reactive body armour? Multidimensional adaptability? Internal transporter nodes?
SEVEN: The drone possesses superior technology. It will fully mature in less than two hours. However, its Borg shielding is not yet active. We can still terminate it, but we must act quickly.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Seven. I want some answers first. What normally happens when a drone disengages from the maturation chamber?
SEVEN: It awaits instructions from the Collective.
JANEWAY: So without those instructions, it has no designation, right? No purpose.
SEVEN: Correct.
JANEWAY: If we can keep him from interfacing with the Collective, maybe we can give him a purpose.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: This is the most advanced drone ever to exist. We could teach him our values, Seven. We could show him what it means to be an individual.
SEVEN: If we fail, if the drone were to be assimilated the Collective would become far more powerful.
JANEWAY: What I'm proposing is the only defence we have against that possibility, short of murder, and that's an order I'd prefer not to give. As I recall, Seven, there were a few crew members who had similar doubts about you.
SEVEN: The situation is different.
JANEWAY: Is it? A Borg, disconnected from the Collective, unsure of its identity? A potential threat, but we succeeded. We're going to pull the same trick again, only this time you're going to be the teacher.
SEVEN: I am to instruct the drone in the ways of humanity.
JANEWAY: Think of it as first contact, and you are our ambassador.

[Science lab]

(Seven enters with Tuvok.)
SEVEN: Maturation cycle is complete.
(The drone disconnects from its tubes and steps down.)
ONE: We are Borg. State our designation.
SEVEN: Designation is irrelevant. You are not part of the Collective. You are an individual. You will receive your instructions from me.
ONE: Insufficient.
SEVEN: You must comply.
ONE: Insufficient. We are Borg.
SEVEN: My designation is Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one. You may call me Seven of Nine.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: You will comply with my commands.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes. We are not Borg. We are individuals. Do you understand?
ONE: State our designation.
TUVOK: Apparently not.
SEVEN: The drone's responses are programmed. It doesn't understand what I'm saying. I must initiate a direct neural interface.
TUVOK: Are you sure that's wise?
SEVEN: There is no other way for me to communicate with it.
TUVOK: Proceed. (Seven holds out her left fist and the drone steps backwards.)
SEVEN: You will not be harmed. Resistance is futile.
(It steps forward again. Seven projects a pair of tubules into its neck.)
SEVEN: I am providing it with instructions. It understands.
(It grabs her wrist.)
SEVEN: The drone is probing my neural pathways. It is trying to assimilate all of my knowledge. I cannot disengage the link.
(Tuvok's phaser is ineffective.)
SEVEN: Terminate interface! You must comply. You are hurting me.
ONE: I will comply.

Daily log, Seven of Nine. I've activated the drone's linguistic database. It is now capable of assimilating information. A direct neural link is too dangerous, so I've decided to use Borg datanodes.

[Engineering]

NEELIX: Special delivery. Two Borg datanodes.
TORRES: More? Link them to the dataport. How many Borg hitchhikers are we going to pick up on this trip? Maybe this is the Collective's new strategy. They don't assimilate anymore, they just show up and look helpless.
NEELIX: Now, B'Elanna.
TORRES: We don't know what this drone will turn into. It's gone from infant to adult in one day.
NEELIX: It will become what we help it to become.
TORRES: How Starfleet of you.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to Neelix.
NEELIX: Neelix here.
SEVEN [OC]: Report to the Science lab immediately. Bring the first datanode.
NEELIX: On my way.

[Science lab]

ONE: We are Borg. State our designation.
SEVEN: We've complied information into this datanode for you to assimilate.
ONE: We do not understand.
SEVEN: You will, but first you must assimilate this data. Come here. Comply! Give me your arm. Inject the datanode with an assimilation tubule. This access port.
ONE: We do not understand.
(Seven uses a small control panel on his arm to activate the tubules. Information flows into the drone and his face lights up with wonder and understanding.)
ONE: Your designation is Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: Your designation is Neelix, Talaxian.
NEELIX: That's me.
ONE: This is a laboratory on a vessel.
NEELIX: The Starship Voyager.
ONE: I am travelling through interstellar space.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: Why?
SEVEN: This is a ship of exploration.
ONE: I am an explorer.
NEELIX: We all are.
ONE: We are Borg.
NEELIX: Well, no.
SEVEN: You are a unique individual. One of many on Voyager. This is not a Borg Collective. Do you understand?
ONE: Individual. My thoughts are my own.
SEVEN: Precisely.
ONE: I wish to assimilate more information.
SEVEN: Not yet. Your neural pathways require time to process the information. You will need to regenerate soon. I will adapt one of the alcoves in our Cargo Bay to your technology. Take the drone to the Doctor for medical analysis. Go with him.
(The drone follows Seven instead.)
SEVEN: All members of this crew must report to the Sickbay for evaluation. When I am finished here, I will join you.

[Corridor]

ONE: Duranium hull. Plasma based power distribution. Tricylic life support systems. Artificial gravity plating.
NEELIX: Right on all counts. Systems analysis appears to be your forte. You should think about a future in Starship Operations.
ONE: Human, female.
NEELIX: Very good.
ONE: She was frightened by me.
NEELIX: Why do you say that?
ONE: I detected an elevation in her pheromonal response.
NEELIX: Well, you're new around here. An unfamiliar face takes some getting used to. I remember when I first came aboard Voyager. I provoked a few strange reactions myself. I still do from time to time. I mean, just look at me. Whiskers and spots.
ONE: Were people afraid of you as well?
NEELIX: Well, no.
ONE: Do they fear me because I am Borg?
NEELIX: Sometimes Borg can be a little intimidating. Don't take it personally.
ONE: I want to know more about the Collective.
NEELIX: You do? Well, of course you do.
ONE: Tell me about the Borg.
NEELIX: Oh, what's to tell? You've seen one cybernetically enhanced species, you've seen them all. You'll have plenty of time to learn all about them but first, you have to give yourself a chance to adapt to life here on Voyager. Now Mister, gosh, I'm sorry. In all the excitement, I forgot your name.
ONE: I do not have a name.
NEELIX: Every individual needs a name. We can't just run around calling you the drone. That's not very interesting, is it?
ONE: Seven of Nine tells me my designation is irrelevant.
NEELIX: I disagree. You should choose a name for yourself. Something that defines who you are. After all, there's only one of you.
ONE: One.
NEELIX: Oh, here we are. Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Good morning.
ONE: You are the Emergency Medical Hologram.
EMH: And you are very observant. Step this way, please.
NEELIX: I have to get back to the Mess hall. There's nothing to worry about. The Doctor is going to do a few scans. You'll be finished before you know it.
ONE: I will comply.
EMH: It's a non-invasive biomedical scan. You won't feel a thing. Your central nervous system is functioning normally but I'm picking up some degradation in your neural pathways. You'll need to regenerate soon.
ONE: My central nervous system is regulated by your mobile emitter.
EMH: That's right.
ONE: Your mobile emitter is more advanced than these diagnostic tools.
EMH: Far more advanced. It's technology that came from the twenty ninth century, four hundred years in the future.
ONE: I am an advanced form of life.
EMH: Yes.
ONE: I am unique.
EMH: Mmm hmm.
ONE: Describe my origins.
EMH: Oh, it's a long story.
ONE: I wish to hear it.
EMH: Another time.
ONE: I wish to hear the story. Now.
EMH: In a nutshell, there was a transporter malfunction. My emitter fused with several of Seven of Nine's nanoprobes.
ONE: I was an accident.
EMH: Call it a random convergence of technologies.
ONE: Am I unwelcome here?
EMH: On the contrary. Our primary mission is to explore new forms of life. You may have been unexpected but, given time, I am sure you'll make a fine addition to the crew. After all, you've got my mobile emitter driving your neocortex, so you're bound to make a dazzling impression. That's called a joke.
ONE: Joke. A verbal comment or gesture designed to provoke laughter.
EMH: I see you've got your mother's sense of humour.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Deck eleven, section thirty two, main Engineering. That is the
ONE: Warp core. Fuelled by a matter - antimatter reaction which produces a maximum output of four thousand terradynes per second, providing power for faster than light propulsion.
SEVEN: Correct.
TORRES: This isn't a classroom, Seven.
SEVEN: Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres, Chief Engineer. Klingon human hybrid. She possesses extensive knowledge of this vessel's systems as well as a volatile temperament.
ONE: Volatile. English adjective meaning readily vaporisable at low temperature. Easily aroused. Tending to violent eruption.
TORRES: Very good. You get a gold star.
SEVEN: Our presence here is authorised. The Captain asked me to familiarise the drone with Voyager.
TORRES: Well, how about familiarising him with the Airponics bay. I have got one hour to come up with a way to predict the expansion rate of this protonebula or Janeway's going to pull the plug on the entire survey. Do you mind?
ONE: If you apply a multispatial algorithm it will accurately predict the rate of expansion. I can demonstrate.
TORRES: All right.
(The drone works quickly at a console.)
TORRES: Amazing.

[Ready room]

ONE: Greetings. Our designation, my designation is One. How are you today?
JANEWAY: I'm just fine, thank you. One?
SEVEN: He requested a designation. One seemed appropriate.
JANEWAY: And how are you today, One?
ONE: Well. Thank you, Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Adapting to life on Voyager?
ONE: Yes. To date I've assimilated forty seven billion terraquads of information on a vast variety of subjects, including particle physics, comparative humanoid anatomy, warp field theory, and the culinary delights of the Delta quadrant.
SEVEN: Mister Neelix. They've been spending time together.
ONE: Is your assessment of me complete? Am I sufficient?
JANEWAY: Why, yes. More than sufficient. In fact, I'd say you were making excellent progress. And this isn't an assessment, One. I simply wanted to meet you.
ONE: With your permission, I would like to be excused. I've agreed to assist Lieutenant Torres. She wishes to increase the efficiency of the Bussard collectors.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
(One leaves. A security officer follows him.)
JANEWAY: You've done a remarkable job.
SEVEN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Not only has he absorbed an incredible amount of knowledge in a matter of days, but he seems to be fitting in with the crew and developing a distinct personality.
SEVEN: He is adapting quickly.
JANEWAY: Then why do I get the feeling something's bothering you.
SEVEN: He's been expressing curiosity about the Borg.
JANEWAY: Ah. And you're worried that if he learns about them he may be drawn to the Collective.
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should tell him what he wants to know. I'd rather he learned about the Borg from us than the Collective.
SEVEN: The lure of perfection is powerful, Captain. He may be tempted to seek out the Borg. That would pose a grave tactical risk.
JANEWAY: Well, we can delay telling him for now, but keep in mind the drone is becoming an individual. Seven, he has the right to know. Sooner or later, we'll have to answer his questions.

[Cargo Bay two]

ONE: Deck eight, section four. Cargo Bay two. Used for the storage of spare components and surplus materials.
SEVEN: It is also where I regenerate. You will reside here with me.
ONE: I wish to assimilate more information.
SEVEN: You have assimilated enough for one day. You've also provided invaluable assistance to the Voyager crew. You have exceeded expectations.
ONE: Then expectations were insufficient.
SEVEN: A simple thank you would suffice.
ONE: Thank you?
SEVEN: A customary expression of gratitude. I paid you a compliment. We must regenerate.
ONE: This technology does not conform with Starfleet parameters.
SEVEN: Correct.
ONE: I am Borg. This technology is Borg.
SEVEN: We must regenerate.
ONE: I wish to assimilate all available data pertaining to the Borg.
SEVEN: Step into the alcove. No, you must face outward. Computer, activate regeneration cycle. Alcoves beta and gamma.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: Thank you.
SEVEN: We must regenerate.
(Lights blinks on One's collar.)

[Borg Sphere]

BORG: A Borg proximity signal has been detected. Origin, Unimatrix three two five, grid zero zero six. Alter course to intercept.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven opens her eyes to see Janeway, Tuvok and a security detail.)
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The drone transmitted a Borg proximity signal. Wake him.
SEVEN: You contacted the Collective.
ONE: No.
JANEWAY: Check his transceiver.
ONE: You deactivated my transceiver two days ago.
SEVEN: It appears your cranial implants have adapted and created a secondary transceiver.
JANEWAY: A Borg fail-safe device.
SEVEN: Precisely. Have you detected any vessels?
TUVOK: Long range sensors picked up a transwarp conduit. A ship is approaching.
SEVEN: Time to intercept?
TUVOK: Approximately three hours.
ONE: The Borg?
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: I wish to meet them.
JANEWAY: Seven. I think it's time we showed our drone what the Borg are all about.

[Astrometrics lab]

(A rapid slide show is on the big screen.)
ONE: The Borg have assimilated thousands of species.
SEVEN: Correct.
ONE: What becomes of those species?
SEVEN: Their neural pathways are restructured and linked to a single collective mind, the Hive. Their bodies are augmented with cybernetic technology. They become drones.
ONE: I wish to experience the hive mind.
JANEWAY: If you did that, you'd no longer be unique. The Borg would destroy your individuality.
ONE: And that is undesirable?
JANEWAY: Very. The Borg are the most destructive force we've ever encountered. They've assimilated billions of individuals against their will.
ONE: You were assimilated.
SEVEN: My link to the Collective was severed.
ONE: When you were in the Collective you assimilated others.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: You call the Borg destructive. Seven of Nine is not.
JANEWAY: That's because she's regained her individuality. If the Borg had the chance, they'd take it away from her again. They'd assimilate everyone on Voyager. With your advanced technology, the Collective would become even more destructive. We have to prevent that from happening but we can't do it without you. We need your abilities to enhance our defences, shields, weapons. Will you help us resist them?
ONE: Seven of Nine, do you wish to rejoin the Collective?
SEVEN: Voyager is my Collective.
ONE: I will need time to assimilate this information.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All hands to battle stations. A Borg vessel is approaching.
JANEWAY: We just ran out of time.

[Corridor]

ONE: Seven of Nine, I'm detecting irregularities in my autonomic nervous system. Cardiovascular excitation, vaeso-constriction.
SEVEN: You are experiencing an emotion. Anxiety. It is only temporary.
ONE: Anxiety. A state of apprehension caused by fear.
SEVEN: The Borg usually elicit this response in others.
ONE: Are you experiencing anxiety as well?
SEVEN: Yes, along with every crew member on Voyager.
ONE: Because they fear assimilation?
SEVEN: Correct. We are needed on the bridge.

[Turbolift]

SEVEN: Deck one.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: What will happen now?
SEVEN: We will engage the Borg.
ONE: Will Voyager be destroyed?
SEVEN: The Borg are powerful, but Captain Janeway is a resourceful leader. We will resist.
ONE: Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Perhaps.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The Borg vessel's moving into range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ONE: Long-range tactical vessel. Transwarp capability. Ablative hull armour.
KIM: We're being scanned.
SEVEN: They're preparing to attack. You must help us enhance our shields. This station will give you access to the shield generators.
TUVOK: They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
ONE: I can hear them in my mind.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: They've locked on a tractor beam.
ONE: The Collective is calling to me.
SEVEN: I hear it too. Billions of voices speaking as one. We must resist that voice. The crew of Voyager will be destroyed if we don't.
(One fires tubules into the station.)
TUVOK: Our shields are remodulating.
PARIS: We've broken free.
JANEWAY: Can you enhance our phasers?
ONE: Yes.
JANEWAY: Do it. When he's finished, target their propulsion system. Be prepared to jump to warp, Mister Paris.
ONE: Enhancements complete. You may fire.
(But the phaser pulse travels back to Voyager.)
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
SEVEN: They inverted our phaser beam with a feedback pulse.
PARIS: They just took out our warp drive.
ONE: Your technology is limited. I cannot enhance it further. I must interface with the Collective. I can disrupt their vessel from within.
SEVEN: They will try to assimilate you.
ONE: They will fail.
JANEWAY: Harry, lock on to the drone.
ONE: That won't be necessary.
(One beams himself away.)
TUVOK: He's inside the sphere.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated.
ONE: My technology is superior. Stop your attack or I will destroy you.
BORG: Your technological distinctiveness will be added to our own. Resistance is futile.

[Bridge]

KIM: Shields down to twenty nine percent!
(Borg drones are knocked out by One's personal forcefield. He steps into an alcove.)
SEVEN: He's accessing their navigational controls.
PARIS: It's heading directly for the nebula.
SEVEN: If they get too close, their hull will collapse.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG: Terminate your interface.
(The Sphere buckles then goes KaBOOM! Voyager is hit by the shockwave.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Stand down red alert. Tuvok, secure all stations. Organise damage control teams, Chakotay.
KIM: Captain, I'm reading a lifesign in the debris. It's the drone. He survived.
SEVEN: He's erected a multispatial force field around his body, but it is weakening.
JANEWAY: Get a lock on him. Beam him to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: Damage?
EMH: Several of his implants were fused in the explosion, but they're regenerating. His biological systems are a different story. Severe trauma to the cerebral cortex, internal bleeding. He needs immediate surgery.
ONE: The sphere?
SEVEN: Destroyed. You were successful.
ONE: While I was linked to the Borg I could hear their thoughts, their objectives. They are aware of my existence. They will pursue me.
SEVEN: Irrelevant. They will fail.
EMH: I need to get started.
ONE: No. I should not exist. I was an accident. A random convergence of technologies.
SEVEN: You are unique.
ONE: I was never meant to be. As long as I exist, you are in danger. All life on Voyager is in danger.
EMH: We can talk about this later.
(He is blocked by One's personal forcefield.)
SEVEN: Allow the Doctor to proceed. Lower the forcefield!
EMH: His synapses are failing.
SEVEN: You must comply.
ONE: I will not.
SEVEN: You must comply. Please. You are hurting me.
ONE: You will adapt.
(One dies.)
EMH: I'm sorry.
(Seven returns to the cargo bay, and deactives One's alcove.)


S5 E3
Extreme Risk
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 28 October 1998

[Holodeck - shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Higher.
PILOT: Lieutenant, we're already at two hundred thousand metres. You could thermalise at this altitude.
TORRES: I said higher.
PILOT: We're at three hundred thousand metres.
(Torres looks down at the clouds over the planet.)
TORRES: Level us off. Computer, disengage safety protocols.
COMPUTER: Warning. Disengaging safety protocols presents extreme risk of injury.
TORRES: Override.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Safety protocols have been disengaged.
TORRES: Drop the forcefield on my mark.
PILOT: Aye.
TORRES: Mark.
(Torres jumps out of the back of the shuttlecraft, and free dives through the clouds.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES: I don't believe it.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Report to Engineering on the double.
TORRES: Computer, end programme.
(The fall ends gently, with Torres being allowed to get her feet under her before the simulation vanishes.)

[Corridor]

SEVEN: I was not aware that protective attire was required for this mission.
TORRES: I was on the holodeck, orbital skydiving.
SEVEN: Leaping from a spacecraft at exospheric altitudes, a curious form of recreation. The probe is ready for launch, however there is still a problem with the telemetry link. Lieutenant. Is something wrong?
TORRES: Actually, I'm not feeling so well. Can you handle the launch without me?
SEVEN: You are putting me in charge?
TORRES: Problem?
SEVEN: No. Just unexpected. Shall I inform the Doctor you're ill?
TORRES: No. Don't.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, someone's locked onto our probe with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a Malon freighter.
PARIS: I had a feeling we hadn't seen the last of them.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Starship Voyager to the Malon vessel. That probe belongs to us. Release it immediately.
KIM: No response.
JANEWAY: Tom, how fast can you get us there?
PARIS: Two hours at least.
JANEWAY: They'll be long gone.
TUVOK: If we instruct the probe to emit a polaron burst it could disrupt the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: The beam has been disabled.
JANEWAY: Harry, redirect the probe's course.
TUVOK: The Malon are in pursuit.
PARIS: That probe can't outrun them.
JANEWAY: No, but we might be able to hide it from them.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: The probe surveyed a class six gas giant this morning. I think we should send it back for a closer look.
KIM: You're going to steer the probe into a gas giant.
TUVOK: Captain, the atmospheric pressure will crush it.
JANEWAY: Not if the Borg shielding does its job. Hail them again.
KIM: No response.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Malon vessel. Break off your pursuit.
TUVOK: The probe is entering the giant's upper atmosphere, and the Malon vessel is following it in.
(After the Malon freighter vanishes into the cloud layers, something goes KaBOOM.)

[Briefing room]

KIM: The probe's stuck in a deep layer of liquid hydrogen and methane about ten thousand kilometres below the outer atmosphere. It's not responding to commands.
JANEWAY: Any good news?
SEVEN: It's still intact. It can be repaired,
CHAKOTAY: If we can get it out of there.
(Torres enters.)
TORRES: Sorry I'm late.
CHAKOTAY: We were just discussing how to retrieve the probe. Is there any possibility of transporting it out?
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: Just no.
TORRES: I don't see how we could get close enough.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to boost transporter range?
TORRES: Not in that kind of atmosphere.
PARIS: Well, if we can't transport it out, we'll just have to fly in and grab it.
TUVOK: Perhaps you weren't paying attention when the Malon freighter imploded.
PARIS: We won't be going in a Malon freighter, Tuvok. We'll be going in our new shuttlecraft.
KIM: Here we go again.
PARIS: Let's face it, Class-two shuttles just don't cut it in the Delta quadrant. We've needed something bigger and better since we got here. It's time we built it!
CHAKOTAY: Tom, we've been through this I don't know how many times. We all appreciate your enthusiasm.
KIM: Speak for yourself, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Bottom line, we don't have time to design and build a ship from scratch.
PARIS: I knew you were going to say that so I've given us a head start.
(He activates the wall monitor.)
PARIS: Behold the Delta Flyer. Ultra-aerodynamic contours, retractable nacelles, parametallic hull plating, unimatrix shielding based on Tuvok's brilliant design for the multispatial probe, and a Borg-inspired weapons system.
SEVEN: Basic design elements are adequate.
PARIS: High praise.
KIM: If we used isomagnetic EPS conduits in the plasma manifold, we could maximise the power distribution.
PARIS: That's the spirit, Harry.
TUVOK: My shield designs could be successfully applied to a vessel of this size.
PARIS: Big of you to admit it, Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: And you think it'll be able to withstand the gas giant's atmosphere.
PARIS: The probe did.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed, but how quickly can it be built?
PARIS: We could replicate the alloys and the new design components, use spare parts from storage. If we worked around the clock we could have it up and running inside a week.
KIM: I'm willing to put in as much overtime as it takes.
SEVEN: I will forego regeneration for the duration of the project.
PARIS: What about you, B'Elanna? Building a new vessel from scratch, that's an engineer's dream come true.
(Torres nods slightly.)
PARIS: What do you say, Captain?
JANEWAY: Why are you all standing around?
(Torres is the last to get up and leave.)

[Holodeck]

(A scale model of the new delta-shaped shuttle is floating in the middle of the room.)
PARIS: Computer, add dynametric tail fins to the nacelles.
TUVOK: Computer, delete dynametric tail fins.
PARIS: What'd you do that for?
TUVOK: We are not designing a hot rod, Lieutenant.
PARIS: That is exactly what we're designing. A twenty fourth century, warp-powered, ultra-responsive hot rod.
TUVOK: Your embellishments are purely decorative. They serve no practical purpose.
PARIS: I beg to differ. If we make this thing look mean enough, other ships are going to think twice before taking us on.
SEVEN: I suggest we return our attention to the matter of structural integrity.
TUVOK: Agreed.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres' hull design is flawed. We should be using tetraburnium alloys instead of titanium.
KIM: Er, B'Elanna?
TORRES: Sounds fine to me. I'm going to finish up the thruster specs.

[Paris's quarters]

PARIS: It's open.
(Torres enters with a PADD.)
PARIS: Hey.
TORRES: Thruster specs.
PARIS: Thanks. Where're you running off to?
TORRES: My quarters.
PARIS: Stay a while. I'll replicate some dinner, a bottle of burgundy. We deserve a break, don't you think?
TORRES: Not tonight.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what's going on?
TORRES: Nothing.
PARIS: Well, then how come it's impossible to have a conversation with you?
TORRES: I'm sorry.
PARIS: I don't want an apology. I want an explanation.
TORRES: Tom, I'm tired.
PARIS: Asleep is more like it. You hardly said three words in that last meeting. And then when Seven changed your design you acted like, like you didn't care.
TORRES: I guess I didn't.
PARIS: I don't get it. How many times have we talked about how great it would be to do what we're doing now? To really collaborate my piloting skills and your engineering expertise. We finally get the chance to create something together from the ground up and you're not the slightest bit enthusiastic?
TORRES: I'm doing my job, aren't I? I delivered the thruster specs on schedule.
PARIS: B'Elanna, I'm not your boss. I'm not questioning your productivity or keeping tabs on how many hours you put in. I just want to know what's going on.
TORRES: I have to go.

[Corridor]

TORRES: Computer, activate holodeck programme Torres two one six.
COMPUTER: The programme is active.
TORRES: Disengage safety protocols.
COMPUTER: Warning. Disengaging safety protocols presents extreme risk of injury.
TORRES: Override.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Safety protocols have been disengaged.
(Torres enters the holodeck and removes her jacket. It is a cave setting. A Cardassian attacks her. She defeats him, and another grabs her from behind. Then the first gets up again.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Ensign, put us into a high orbit. I want to stay well above that ionospheric turbulence.
(It is a lady Ensign at the helm.)
ENSIGN: Aye, ma'am.
JANEWAY: There's the probe. Ten thousand kilometres beneath all that methane, but still intact.
CHAKOTAY: We're not alone. I'm reading massive theta radiation. It's being dumped by a Malon freighter approaching from the far side of the planet. They're hailing.
JANEWAY: They're more talkative than the last ones. Open a channel.
KIM: Aye, sir.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: Leave orbit of this planet now.
JANEWAY: I don't believe we've been introduced. I'm Captain Janeway.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: I know exactly who you are. You are the person responsible for the destruction of one of our freighters and the deaths of nine Malon citizens.
JANEWAY: I'm very sorry that lives were lost, but you're leaving out an important detail. Your people were trying to steal a probe from us. We warned them to stay away from the gas giant but they didn't listen.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: I'm taking your probe as compensation for our losses.
CHAKOTAY: That's going to be a little difficult. It's stuck beneath the atmosphere of the same gas giant that crushed your other ship.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: My people are expert at salvage operations.
JANEWAY: Well, Mister.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: Vrelk. Controller Vrelk.
JANEWAY: Vrelk. We have a little expertise of our own. We're a very determined crew. So my suggestion is that you leave orbit and in the future, if you come across anything that bears the insignia of the U.S.S. Voyager, head in the other direction.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: You are making a serious error.
JANEWAY: End transmission. Why would people in the business of toxic waste disposal be so anxious to get hold of a probe?
CHAKOTAY: It's not just any probe. It's multispatial technology. Maybe they think it'll help them find new places to dump their garbage.
(Torres returns to her quarters to treat her cuts and bruises with a hidden dermal regenerator.)

[Mess hall]

(Later that night, the place is dark except for the kitchen.)
NEELIX: B'Elanna! What a nice surprise. I was just getting ready to close. Business has been slow with so many people busy on the new shuttle.
TORRES: Oh. I was just hoping we could catch up.
NEELIX: You want to catch up? With me?
TORRES: If you have the time.
NEELIX: Are you kidding? Yeah. Can I get you something? Name your poison.
TORRES: Oh. Er.
NEELIX: Come on, B'Elanna! I handed that one to you on a silver platter.
TORRES: Huh?
NEELIX: Name your poison? I was expecting one of those scathing but affectionate insults you always make about my cooking.
TORRES: Sorry.
NEELIX: You'll feel wittier on a full stomach. So, what'll it be?
TORRES: Actually, I was hoping for banana pancakes.
NEELIX: I don't think I ever heard of banana pancakes before.
TORRES: My grandmother used to make them for me when I was a kid. It's always put a smile on my face.
NEELIX: Well then, one smile coming right up.
(He walks over to a replicator.)
NEELIX: Computer, one stack of banana pancakes. Smells delicious.
TORRES: Thanks. So how have you been?
NEELIX: Oh, just great. My security training is going really well. Tuvok told me the other day that I'm, er, not completely inept. Aren't you going to try them?
TORRES: Sure.
(She has one small fork-full.)
NEELIX: Well?
TORRES: Delicious. I have to get back to work.

[Bridge]

(Voyager and the freighter are flying in close formation above the gas giant.)
JANEWAY: What are they still doing here?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently, they're not willing to give up on the probe so easily.
JANEWAY: The question is, how do they expect to get their hands on it?
TUVOK: It's reasonable to assume they're waiting for us to retrieve the probe, at which time they'll attempt to steal it again.
JANEWAY: Maybe, but they have to know we're prepared for that. If they were planning to fight you'd think they'd call in reinforcements, try to out-gun us.
CHAKOTAY: Sensors don't show any other Malon ships in the area.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Report to the Astrometrics lab. I have important information regarding the Malon

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: vessel.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: What have you got?
SEVEN: I've been using coherent neutrino beams to document activity aboard the Malon freighter.
JANEWAY: In other words, you've been spying on them.
SEVEN: I've made a troubling discovery. This is a polythermal image of an interior section of the alien ship. The shaded figures you see are Malon crew members.
TUVOK: That appears to be a small ship.
SEVEN: Correct. The Malon are constructing a spacecraft composed of tetraburnium alloys.
TUVOK: Theoretically, such a ship would be capable of withstanding extreme atmospheric pressures.
JANEWAY: I'll be damned. They're going after the probe themselves.
SEVEN: That's not all, Captain. According to my projections, they will finish construction of their vessel at least thirty six hours before we finish ours.
JANEWAY: Well then, I'd say we've got an old-fashioned space race on our hands.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've stepped up the pace of construction in order to finish our shuttle before the Malon finish theirs. According to Seven's most recent intelligence we've gained some ground over the last twenty four hours , putting us in a virtual dead heat with our competitors.

[Delta Flyer]

(Design note - the pilot sits alone in the nose of the flyer, with two more stations behind him, in delta formation.)
KIM: I keep telling you, we've got to reinforce the hull with kellinite. That's all there is to it.
TUVOK: Proposing the same flawed strategy over and over again will not me it more effective, Ensign.
KIM: Well, we've got to come up with something or we'll never get this thing off the ground.
TORRES: Vorik, turn that damn thing off. I can't hear myself think.
VORIK: Sorry, sir.
PARIS: Look, we could spend weeks trying to solve this, but we've got a ticking clock. Engines are working, weapons systems are online. I say we launch now and hope for the best.
TUVOK: Mister Paris, that is perhaps the most illogical statement you've ever made. Unless we find a way to reconfigure the structural integrity field the hull will incur microfractures during descent.
PARIS: Microfractures, Tuvok. Doesn't necessarily mean we'll have a hull breach.
TUVOK: And if we do, I suppose these useless design elements from your Captain Proton scenario will compensate for the problem.
PARIS: Hey, every one of these knobs and levers is fully functional.
TUVOK: And completely superfluous.
PARIS: Maybe to you. I am tired of tapping panels. For once, I want controls that let me actually feel the ship I'm piloting.
KIM: Where are you going?
TORRES: Holodeck.
KIM: What for?
TORRES: To find out if this microfracture problem is a fatal flaw.

[Holodeck - Delta Flyer]

TORRES: Computer, activate immersion shielding.
COMPUTER: Immersion shielding activated.
TORRES: Commence descent sequence.
COMPUTER: Range to probe, thirty thousand kilometres. Twenty five thousand. Warning. Atmospheric pressure is exceeding tolerance levels. Rapid ascent recommended.
TORRES: Continue descent.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Range to probe, ten thousand kilometres.
TORRES: Disengage safety protocols.
COMPUTER: Warning. Disengaging safety protocols presents extreme risk of injury.
TORRES: Override.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Safety protocols have been disengaged. Warning. Atmospheric pressure is exceeding tolerance levels.
TORRES: Reroute power from secondary systems to structural integrity.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Microfractures are present in zones one and four.
(The helm console goes Bang! knocking Torres out.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The Malon are venting a theta radiation cloud. Our shields are down to eighty nine percent.
JANEWAY: Ensign, back us off.
CHAKOTAY: Vrelk is hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: That was rude, wasn't it, but we still have quite a bit of antimatter waste to expel. I hope we didn't damage your shields,
JANEWAY: Our shields are fine.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: Mmm. Well, we only ejected a small amount of waste this time. We still have much, much more to get rid of. Your shields may not be able to stand even higher levels of theta radiation.
JANEWAY: I've already told you we're not going anywhere.
VRELK [on viewscreen]: Let's stop playing these games, Captain. You've scanned my ship, I've scanned yours. We each know the other is building a vessel to retrieve the probe. What you don't know is that my vessel will be ready to launch in less than two days. You're too far behind.
JANEWAY: Well, if you're so far ahead, why bother trying to scare us away?
VRELK [on viewscreen]: Just trying to save you the embarrassment of losing.
(Transmission ends.)
CHAKOTAY: Think they're really two days away?
JANEWAY: He's probably bluffing but we're not going to take any chances. We've got to speed up construction somehow.
CHAKOTAY: We'd also better find a way to shore up our shields in case Vrelk decides to do anymore venting.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Janeway to Lieutenant Torres. Computer, locate Lieutenant Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in holodeck one.
JANEWAY: Get down there.

[Holodeck - Delta Flyer]

COMPUTER: Warning. Hull microfractures are present in zones one, two, three and four. Hull breach is imminent. Repeat. Hull microfracture are present in zones one, two, three and four. Hull breach is imminent.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme! B'Elanna. Chakotay to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: What am I doing here?
EMH: You had an accident on the holodeck.
TORRES: How long was I out?
EMH: Almost twelve hours.
TORRES: I'd better get back to work.
EMH: Not just yet.
TORRES: Why?
EMH: The Captain's asked me to keep you here.
TORRES: But I feel fine.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: Would you excuse us please, Doctor.
TORRES: Captain, what's going on?
JANEWAY: When the Doctor examined you he found evidence of internal bleeding, fractured vertebrae, contusions, cranial trauma.
TORRES: I guess the accident was pretty serious.
JANEWAY: The injuries I'm talking about didn't happen recently. Some of them are weeks, even months old.
TORRES: Well, I'm an engineer. I've had my share of bumps and bruises.
JANEWAY: But you didn't seek treatment for any of these.
TORRES: I don't run to Sickbay every time I stub my toe.
JANEWAY: Some of these injuries were life-threatening, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Do I look like I'm dying?
JANEWAY: The Doctor says many of the wounds were treated by someone with the medical expertise of a first-year nursing student.
TORRES: Oh, that's ridiculous.
JANEWAY: Is it? We investigated today's accident. You turned off the safety protocols during the holo-simulation. Why?
TORRES: We have a microfracture problem. With the safety protocols on, there's no way to be sure what would happen during a real flight.
JANEWAY: You don't really expect me to believe that, do you?
TORRES: Are you calling me a liar?
JANEWAY: According to the holodeck logs, you've been spending a lot of time there over the last few months. If I were to check, would I find that you've been running other programmes without safety protocols?
TORRES: Would you like to look at my personal logs as well?
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, I'm worried about you. If there's something wrong, I want to help.
TORRES: Nothing's wrong. Okay?
JANEWAY: No. It's not okay. And until you decide to be more forthcoming you'll remain under the Doctor's supervision. Which means you're off the shuttle project. I'm sorry.
TORRES: I'm not.
JANEWAY: Now I know there's something wrong.

[Ready room]

PARIS: Engines are operating at close to ninety percent efficiency, Seven's got her new weapons system online. And if we can just solve that microfracture problem, we'll be ready to go.
JANEWAY: Keep on it. Now, let's talk about B'Elanna. Tom, you had no idea about these injuries or how she got them?
PARIS: She never complained about being hurt, but then again she's barely speaking to me lately.
JANEWAY: It's almost as if she's been intentionally trying to hurt herself.
CHAKOTAY: You think all these injuries have been happening on the holodeck?
JANEWAY: Well, where else? If they'd happened while she was working, as she claims, somebody would've filed an injury report.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what sort of programmes she's been running?
JANEWAY: Are you thinking the same thing I am?
CHAKOTAY: I hate to go digging around in someone's personal holodeck programmes, but if she won't tell us what's going on I don't think we have much choice.
JANEWAY: Tom, what do you think?
PARIS: He's right.
JANEWAY: Start digging.

[Torres' quarters]

(The doorbell chimes repeatedly.)
TORRES: I'm sleeping!
(Chakotay enters.)
TORRES: Oh.
CHAKOTAY: Hi.
TORRES: Hi. I, I thought you were the Doctor making a house call.
CHAKOTAY: He let you out of the cell block, huh?
TORRES: He thinks familiar surroundings will help speed my recovery.
CHAKOTAY: Recovery from what?
TORRES: That's what I said. He thinks I'm suffering from clinical depression.
CHAKOTAY: Are you depressed?
TORRES: What are you, the new ship's counsellor?
CHAKOTAY: No. Just a friend.
TORRES: This whole thing is so ridiculous. I don't report a few scrapes and suddenly Janeway thinks there's something wrong with me. Typical Starfleet, huh?
CHAKOTAY: You have been running holodeck programmes without safety protocols.
TORRES: A few, but I haven't put anybody else at risk, and it's nothing that I can't handle.
CHAKOTAY: Tell you what. What do you say you and I pay a little visit to the holodeck? You can show me some of the programmes you've been running.
TORRES: Right now?
CHAKOTAY: Sure. Maybe if I see what you've been up to, I can convince the Captain there's nothing to worry about.
TORRES: She's taken away my holodeck privileges.
CHAKOTAY: Consider them restored.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Computer, activate holo-programme Torres zeta one.
COMPUTER: Programme activated.
TORRES: What are you doing?

[Holodeck - caves]

(Chakotay drags Torres into the caves. There are flashes of weapons fire, voices shouting and bodies on the ground.)
TORRES: Computer, freeze programme.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, belay that command.
TORRES: Turn it off!
CHAKOTAY: Not until you tell me what it is!
TORRES: You know what it is.
(Chakotay turns over one charred body.)
CHAKOTAY: Who's this?
TORRES: Li-Paz. Don't you recognise him?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, I recognise them all. Meyer. Nelson. Sahreen. You created a programme to watch all our Maquis friends get slaughtered. What I want to know is why?
TORRES: I thought we came down here to talk about safety protocols. This has nothing to do with that.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not so sure. The logs show you only ran this programme for forty seven seconds the day after I gave you the news about the massacre. Then you shut it down and started running the most dangerous programmes you could find, with the safeties off. Why?!
TORRES: This is ridiculous. I'm leaving.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, seal the doors.
TORRES: You can't do this!
CHAKOTAY: The hell I can't. You're not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on. B'Elanna, why are you intentionally trying to hurt yourself?
TORRES: I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: Are you trying to commit suicide?
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: Then why?
TORRES: Because. Because if I sprain my ankle, at least I feel something.
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean?
TORRES: I'm not trying to kill myself. I'm trying to see if I'm still alive.
CHAKOTAY: I don't understand.
TORRES: When you look at those corpses, how do you feel?
CHAKOTAY: Sad. Angry. Maybe a little guilty that I wasn't there to die with them.
TORRES: Not me. I don't feel anything at all.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, the Maquis were like our adopted family. I can understand you trying to block out that kind of pain.
TORRES: You don't understand. It's not just the pain. I don't feel anything. Not about my dead friends, not about Tom, you, my job.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you're afraid if you let yourself start to feel something, you might not be able to stop. You can't just shut off your emotions, B'Elanna. Sooner or later you're going to have to let yourself grieve.
TORRES: Why? Just so I can go through it all over again?
CHAKOTAY: What are you talking about?
TORRES: When I was six, my father walked out on me. When I was nineteen, I got kicked out of Starfleet. A few years later, I got separated from the Maquis. And just when I start to feel safe, you tell me that all of our old friends have been slaughtered. The way I figure it, I've lost every family I've ever had.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, you have a new family now, here on Voyager. You're not going to lose us. You're stuck with us.
TORRES: You can't promise me that.
CHAKOTAY: No, I suppose I can't. Losing people's inevitable, and sometimes it happens sooner than we expect. But I can promise you that the people on this ship aren't about to let you stop living your life or break your neck on the holodeck. You're going to have to find another way to deal with this.
TORRES: I don't know how.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll figure it out. Together.
JANEWAY [OC]: Commander Chakotay, we're under attack. Report to the bridge immediately.
TORRES: You'd better go.

[Bridge]

(Malon spatial charges are exploding around Voyager.)
CHAKOTAY: Why are they suddenly picking a fight?
TUVOK: I believe they're attempting to distract us, Commander, while they launch their new shuttlecraft.
(And away it flies, into the gas giant.)
TUVOK: The Malon vessel is forty two thousand kilometres from the probe, and closing.
CHAKOTAY: We can still catch them.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Lieutenant Paris.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Paris here.
JANEWAY [OC]: We've got to launch now if we're going to get to the probe first. Are you ready?
PARIS: Yes ma'am. I'll begin the prelaunch sequence.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What about the microfracture problem?

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: We're keeping an eye on it, but we sure could use an extra hand.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Chakotay's on his way.

[Corridor]

TORRES: Chakotay, let me go.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, I'm in a hurry.
TORRES: I am not out to get myself hurt if that's what you're thinking. I just want to do my job.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you weren't interested in your job anymore.
TORRES: If that hull breaches, I should be there. I'm still the best engineer we've got.
CHAKOTAY: Not lately.
TORRES: I can do this. I need to do this.
(He gives her the toolbox he is carrying.)

[Delta Flyer]

(The Delta Flyer has multiple windows around and above the cockpit, not just a forward viewscreen.)
KIM: Forty seconds to launch.
SEVEN: Powering impulse engines.
PARIS: Stand by to bring aft thrusters online.
KIM: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I heard you might need some help keeping this thing from falling apart.
PARIS: Welcome aboard.
TORRES: Vorik, you're in my seat.
VORIK: Excuse me, Lieutenant.
(Vorik leaves.)
KIM: Twenty seconds to launch.
PARIS: Get that hatch closed.
KIM: Hatch sealed.
PARIS: Give me aft thrusters.
SEVEN: Aft thrusters enabled.
KIM: Ten seconds.
PARIS: Alright, let's see what this baby can do.
KIM: Five. Four. Three. Two. One.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The Delta Flyer is away, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long till they overtake the Malon shuttle?
TUVOK: At present velocity, approximately three minutes.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: We're in.
TORRES: Structural integrity's at ninety two percent.
KIM: There's the Malon shuttle. Two hundred kilometres off the port bow and three thousand kilometres from the probe.
PARIS: We'll catch them. B'Elanna, how's the hull?
TORRES: Structural integrity's down about twelve percent.
SEVEN: They're launching spatial charges. Shields holding.
PARIS: They want to play dirty. Let's show them what a little Borg-inspired weaponry can do.
SEVEN: Acknowledged. Loading photonic missiles.
(A console goes Bang!)
KIM: We've lost power to secondary systems.
PARIS: Fire.
SEVEN: Three direct hits.
KIM: They're losing attitude control. They're pulling up.
PARIS: Nice shooting, Seven. I'm taking us down to the target. Harry, get ready to grab the probe.
KIM: Still out of transport range.
TORRES: We're losing integrity. Fifty percent, forty.
PARIS: If you can hold us together for another half a minute we'll be within range of the target.
SEVEN: We still need to survive the ascent.
PARIS: One thing at a time.
TORRES: We're losing structural integrity. It's down to twenty five percent.
PARIS: Harry, prepare to lock on.
TORRES: We've got microfractures forming. Aft starboard hull, zone two.
KIM: I've got a lock. Beaming the probe into the cargo hold. Got it!
PARIS: Initiating rapid ascent.
(A panel starts to buckle.)
TORRES: Harry, I need those secondary systems back online.
KIM: I can't. They're fried. (Torres pulls a cover off another section and places it over the failing panel, then starts to weld it in place.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant, what are you doing?
TORRES: Patching a hole before it opens.
KIM: That'll never hold.
TORRES: It'll hold a minute or two, and with any luck that's all we need. Seven, take over here. I need an EPS relay.
KIM: Er, there's one in the transporter control circuitry.
SEVEN: The panel is sealed.
TORRES: Good. Get away from it.
(She attaches the relay to a device she has taken from a locker.)
TORRES: I need a phaser.
(Kim throws one to her. She plugs it into the device as the repair starts to buckle. Then she turns the phaser on and adjusts the EPS relay power feed.)
TORRES:  Watch out. I don't know if this is going to work.
(She creates a forcefield across the area of the microfractures. When the hull breaches, the ship is still safe.)
KIM: Glad you decided to come along.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The Delta Flyer has docked.
JANEWAY: And the Malon?
CHAKOTAY: They're a little preoccupied. Seems their shuttlecraft's having a problem climbing out of the gas giant's atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, Ensign. Warp two.
ENSIGN: Aye, Captain.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna. I heard you did a hell of a job. So, how are you?
TORRES: You mean am I back to my old charming self? I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: Give it time.
TORRES: Chakotay. What you did down in the holodeck today. Thanks. But if you ever do anything like that again, I'll break your neck.

[Mess hall]

TORRES: Computer, one stack of banana pancakes with maple syrup.
(Torres takes a mouthful and smiles.)


S5 E4
In the Flesh
Stardate: 52136.4
Original Airdate: 4 November 1998

[Starfleet Headquarters - garden]
(An eldery man tends a protea plant, and picks its everlasting bloom.)
BULLOCK: Welcome to Earth. I am Admiral Bullock, and I will be your Commanding Officer for the next six months. Questions, comments, bring them to me. Problems, talk to Lieutenant Kinis.(a Vulcan.) Larsen, you're assigned to the Federation Council, Deputy Liaison Officer. Young and Raskin, report to Orbital Flight Control. You'll be monitoring incoming vessels from the Bolian sector.
(Someone is watching and taking photographs of the people. It is Chakotay, with the EMH's holo-camera. A short time later, he is scanning a stand of bamboo. The gardener walks up to him)
BOOTHBY: I can save you some time there, son. They're bamboo.
CHAKOTAY: I know that. Unfortunately, my tricorder's reading them as maple trees. I think the isodyne relays must be malfunctioning.
BOOTHBY: Why don't you pay a visit to Logistical Support? Maybe they'll issue you a new one.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea.
BOOTHBY: I'm going that way myself. Mind some company?
CHAKOTAY: Not at all.
BOOTHBY: So, what's your assignment here?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. I haven't received my orders yet. I just arrived.
BOOTHBY: From where?
CHAKOTAY: A three year tour on the Intrepid.
BOOTHBY: Is that a fact? I thought the Intrepid was patrolling the Neutral Zone.
CHAKOTAY: It is. I caught a transport vessel at Deep Space Seven.
BOOTHBY: Ah. Got tired of wrestling with the Romulans.
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say it's good to be back. What about yourself? How long have you been posted here, Mister?
BOOTHBY: Boothby. Boothby's the name.
CHAKOTAY: Boothby. I've heard of you.
BOOTHBY: I should hope so. I've been tending these grounds for fifty four years, give or take a few months.
CHAKOTAY: And beautiful grounds they are.
BOOTHBY: Mmm hmm. Logistical Support. Straight through the main complex, second door on your right.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you.
BOOTHBY: Commander, Logistics is a secure area. They won't let you in with that holo-imaging device. Fresh from the Neutral Zone? You're not a Romulan double agent, are you, son?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I was just recording a few images for my friends back home. Would you mind posing for a shot?
BOOTHBY: Me? You want a picture of me?
CHAKOTAY: The one and only Boothby. My friends would be impressed.
BOOTHBY: Well, when you put it that way. Cadet, take our picture, will you?
(Chakotay hands the camera over to a  young red-headed woman.)
BOOTHBY: Don't cut off our heads. I expect a copy of that, young man.

[Quantum Cafe]

(Chakotay sits on a bar stool and opens a book left on the counter. A woman walks up.)
ARCHER: You're in my seat. And you're reading my book. Do you want my drink, too?
CHAKOTAY: Depends. What is it?
ARCHER: Klingon martini. Vermouth, gin, with a dash of bloodwine.
CHAKOTAY: Bloodwine? Never touch the stuff.
ARCHER: What do you like?
CHAKOTAY: Excuse me. I was waiting for a friend.
ARCHER: Valerie Archer.
CHAKOTAY: Hayek. Jason Hayek.
ARCHER: Nice tattoo. I bet there's a story behind it.
CHAKOTAY: A long one. A Cave Beyond Logic: Vulcan Perspectives on Platonic Thought. Sounds fascinating.
ARCHER: You can borrow it if you like.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks anyway. I can only take small doses of Vulcan philosophy.
ARCHER: Stationed here?
CHAKOTAY: Temporarily.
ARCHER: Where do you call home?
CHAKOTAY: You first. Where are you from?
ARCHER: Everywhere. My parents were starship officers. By the time I was ten I'd seen half the quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet brat.
ARCHER: Bratty as they come.
(There is a crash as a chair is knocked over. A man is clutching at his throat while his face wibbles. His friends drag him away.)
ARCHER: Can I ask you a question. Have you ever reverted?
CHAKOTAY: Reverted? Not yet.
ARCHER: Ensign O'Halloran, this is his third time this week. If it happens again, they'll pull him out of training.
CHAKOTAY: What about you. Any trouble?
ARCHER: Oh, I can keep my human form. It's the little things that bother me.
CHAKOTAY: Little things?
ARCHER: Breathing oxygen, bipedal locomotion, and sleeping. The concept of being unconscious for eight hours a night, it's so alien.
CHAKOTAY: I know what you mean.
ARCHER: That's why I started reading their books. For some reason it helps me relax. But we shouldn't be talking about this. Think human, talk human, be human. Remember?
CHAKOTAY: How could I forget?
ARCHER: So, had a chance to take a look around?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
ARCHER: Headquarters has a lot more to offer than conference rooms and consoles, if you have the right guide.
CHAKOTAY: Is that an invitation?
ARCHER: I get off duty at nineteen hundred hours.
TUVOK: Commander.
ARCHER: Speak of the devil.
CHAKOTAY: We were just discussing Vulcan philosophy.
ARCHER: Join us.
TUVOK: Another time, perhaps. We have work to do.
ARCHER: Oh, can't it wait?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid not.
ARCHER: What about tonight? Do we have a date? Nineteen hundred hours. Meet you right here.
CHAKOTAY: I'll do my best.
ARCHER: Live long and prosper.
(Chakotay and Tuvok walk away.)
TUVOK: A date?
CHAKOTAY: Relax, Tuvok. I plan on standing her up.
TUVOK: We agreed to limit our investigation to surveillance.
CHAKOTAY: It was worth the risk. She talked about training. These are some kind of aliens learning to pose as humans.
TUVOK: For what purpose?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. I didn't get that far.
TUVOK: We're due back at the transporter coordinates.

[Starfleet Headquarters - gardens]

GENTRY: Excuse me, gentlemen. You've entered a restricted area. Captains and above.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry. We didn't realise.
GENTRY: I'm going to have to ask you to come with me.
TUVOK: Why?
GENTRY: All unauthorised personnel are to be debriefed by Starfleet Intelligence. Direct orders from Admiral Bullock.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, Ensign, we're late for a meeting with Starfleet Command. The debriefing will have to wait.
GENTRY: I'm sorry, Commander.
(Gentry has pulled out his phaser.)
CHAKOTAY: Very well.
(Gentry turns with Chakotay, and Tuvok neck-pinches him from behind.)
TUVOK: When he regains consciousness, he'll no doubt want to report this incident.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris, three to beam up.
PARIS [OC]: Three?
CHAKOTAY: I'll explain later.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Who's that?
CHAKOTAY: One of Starfleet's finest. Take us to Voyager.
KIM: What did you find down there?
TUVOK: Earth.

[Sickbay]

(Gentry wakes on the biobed in the surgical alcove.)
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
GENTRY: Where am I?
JANEWAY: On a starship.
GENTRY: What starship? Why have you brought me here? I'll be reporting this incident to the Admiral.
CHAKOTAY: You can drop the charade. We know you're not human.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
GENTRY: Gentry, David. Rank, Ensign. Starfleet service number nine nine beta three two seven eight. Planet of origin, Earth.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in your knowledge of human culture. We're not part of your re-creation. I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. I'm from Earth. You're not.
GENTRY: Gentry, David. Rank, Ensign. Starfleet service number nine nine beta three two seven eight.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
GENTRY: What are you doing?
EMH: I need a sample of your DNA.
GENTRY: Why?
JANEWAY: Since you won't tell us who you are, we have no choice but to find out for ourselves.
EMH: You won't be harmed.
GENTRY: Gentry to Headquarters. Security alert!
CHAKOTAY: We've disabled your comm. badge.
(Gentry knocks the EMH's hand aside and leaps off the biobed.)
GENTRY: No! Don't touch me. Disease! Humans!
(Gentry collapses.)
EMH: It appears he's released a cellular toxin into his bloodstream. He's dead.

Captain's log, supplemental. Until we know exactly what's going on I'm keeping Voyager concealed behind a class three moon.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Chakotay is showing his photographs on a wall monitor.)
CHAKOTAY: Federation Council, Astrophysics, Starfleet Medical complex. They even re-created the Officers' Club, the Quantum Café.
JANEWAY: Computer, return to time index 4228. That's Boothby.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The head groundskeeper at Starfleet Academy. When I was a cadet, he used to give me fresh roses for my quarters.
TUVOK: It's safe to assume this individual is not Boothby.
JANEWAY: Whoever they are, they've gathered incredibly accurate information about Starfleet headquarters.
SEVEN: Perhaps they had access to a Federation database.
CHAKOTAY: Or they've been to San Francisco.
TUVOK: The habitat's population consists of humans, Vulcans, Bolian, Ferengi. All Alpha Quadrant species.
JANEWAY: What do we know about this artificial environment, Seven?
SEVEN: I've used the tricorder data, holo-images and astrometric scans to extrapolate a cross-section of the interior. I believe they used a combination of holographic projection and particle synthesis.
JANEWAY: Power source?
SEVEN: There are thirteen thermionic generators beneath the city. I can't identify the energy signatures.
TUVOK: The habitat's heavily fortified. They are well prepared to defend against an attack.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: I've completed my post-mortem analysis. You'd better get down here.
JANEWAY: On my way. If this is a training ground, it could mean they're planning an invasion of the Federation. We should prepare for the worst. See if you can find a way to penetrate their defences.

[Sickbay]

EMH: He may look human, he may sound human, he may even smell human, but there's no question, he's alien.
JANEWAY: Was he genetically altered?
EMH: On a highly sophisticated level. If it weren't for microcellular scans I wouldn't be able to distinguish him from the genuine article. I've managed to isolate the alien DNA. Fortunately, most of his cells are still chemically active. If I use a cytokinetic injection I should be able to trigger a genetic reversion.
JANEWAY: Do it.
(The reversion results in the massive form of Species 8472 flopping over the tiny biobed.)
EMH: Talk about a wolf in sheep's clothing.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Species 8472. The question is, why are they training to pose as human beings?
PARIS: Back in the twentieth century, the Soviets used to build American towns to train their agents to infiltrate the United States. Species 8472 could be doing the same thing.
KIM: They're going to infiltrate the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Maybe they already have.
TORRES: Tom's right. How else could they have gathered their information about us?
SEVEN: Perhaps they've acquired it from the Borg.
JANEWAY: It doesn't matter how they got their data. We need to find out what they intend to do with it.
SEVEN: If our previous experience is any indication, they will try to destroy Earth.
TUVOK: A logical assumption. They did threaten to purge our galaxy of all life.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, keep working on a way to target their habitat's power source. We're going to need nanoprobe warheads and plenty of them. Seven, see to it.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: In the meantime, I've got a date to keep. I made contact with one of them, Commander Valerie Archer. Maybe I can capitalise on the relationship. Get a better idea of what they're planning.
JANEWAY: Tom, Harry, take him back in the Delta Flyer. Keep a constant transporter lock on him. If Species 8472 attacks Earth, the Federation won't have any defences against them, and I don't need to remind you that we have no way to warn Starfleet Command. Voyager may be the last defense against an all-out invasion of Earth.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Chakotay is going through the reconstruction of the habitat.)
JANEWAY: Last minute preparations?
CHAKOTAY: Just planning my big night out.
JANEWAY: I can recommend a nice Japanese replimat on the Embarcadero.
CHAKOTAY: I was never very good with chopsticks.
JANEWAY: Starfleet headquarters. Brings back memories, even if it is just a re-creation. I remember my last visit there. I was given my general orders for Voyager's first mission. Proceed to the Badlands and find the Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: The orders that brought us together.
JANEWAY: What about you? When was the last time you were at Headquarters?
CHAKOTAY: Before today? March 3rd, 2368. The day I resigned my commission. I can still remember the look on the Admiral's face.
JANEWAY: Which one?
CHAKOTAY: Nimembeh.
JANEWAY: He taught at the Academy, didn't he?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
JANEWAY: Interspecies Ethics, wasn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Tactical Analysis.
JANEWAY: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, you think I might be one of them. You're testing me.
JANEWAY: You and Tuvok were in the alien habitat for nearly three hours. Anything could have happened down there.
CHAKOTAY: True. Why don't you have Tuvok meet us in Sickbay. The Doctor can perform a microcellular analysis.
JANEWAY: Tuvok's already there.
CHAKOTAY: You could have just asked me to report to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Given Ensign Gentry's reaction, I thought I'd be a little more tactful.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Not taking any chances, are you?
JANEWAY: Don't feel singled out. I've asked the Doctor to examine the entire crew. There's no telling how 8472 got their information about Starfleet. From the Borg? Earth? For all we know there's been an impostor on board.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Cell morphology normal, all of your nucleotide sequences are accounted for. You're a hundred percent human.
CHAKOTAY: That's a relief. And Tuvok?
EMH: Green blooded Vulcan through and through. Well, two down, one hundred and twenty five to go.
JANEWAY: You'd better get going.
CHAKOTAY: Right. I don't want to be late.
JANEWAY: Just be home before midnight.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.

[Delta Flyer]

KIM: I've enhanced this tricorder with a transoptic datalink. It should help you access some of their systems. Type one phaser modified to fire Borg nanoprobes.
CHAKOTAY: Right.
PARIS: Do you always arm yourself before a first date?
KIM: You've never had a date with species 8472.
PARIS: Personally, I don't go out with girls from other galaxies.
KIM: You're a true explorer, Chakotay.
PARIS: Is she cute?
CHAKOTAY: In her human form, anyway.
KIM: I've always wondered what it would be like to date an alien.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take notes.
PARIS: We're making our approach.
CHAKOTAY: All stop. Shields up.

[Medical lab]

EMH: Feisty little fellows. You've increased their cellular motility by over two hundred percent.
SEVEN: I thought it would be prudent to maximize their efficiency.
EMH: Seven, the last time we used nanoprobes we sent 8472 scurrying back to fluidic space. You can't get more efficient than that.
SEVEN: The species is highly adaptive. It's been over a year since our first encounter. They may have developed a defence against our technology.
EMH: There's one way to find out. We can test the nanoprobes on our corpse. You'll find the body in morgue chamber three. Beam it to the surgical bay. The creature's only been dead for a few hours, there should still be plenty of cellular activity. 

[Sickbay]

(The corpse is beamed in.)
EMH: Initiate a bio-scan, full spectrum. Don't worry. It's an autonomic reflex. The creature still has residual bioelectric activity in its nervous system.
SEVEN: Something's wrong. The nanoprobes should have taken effect by now.
EMH: Hmm.
SEVEN: What is it?
EMH: The creature's nucleotides are still intact. It looks like your concerns were warranted. We'll have to inform the Captain. We may have to
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: False alarm.
SEVEN: I will replicate more nanoprobes.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I don't mind telling you, Seven, I'm still holding out for a diplomatic solution.
SEVEN: Improbable. Species 8472 will not respond to diplomacy.
EMH: Funny. We used to say the same thing about the Borg. My point is, anything's possible if you keep an open mind. Optimism, Seven. Try to look on the bright side.
SEVEN: It is difficult to be optimistic when we are preparing for battle.
EMH: Have you ever heard the phrase, the best defence is a good offence?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Throughout human history weapons of mass destruction were often designed in the hopes that they'd never be used.
SEVEN: And yet, in Earth's Third World War, nuclear weapons accounted for six hundred million casualties. Were they looking on the bright side?
EMH: An unfortunate exception.

[Quantum Cafe]

(Archer and Boothby are sitting at a table.)
ARCHER: We were just talking about you.
CHAKOTAY: Oh?
BOOTHBY: She didn't think you were going to show up.
ARCHER: Boothby!
BOOTHBY: I've known Archer since she was a first year cadet. She's not easily impressed. I didn't think you were her type. Oh, er, if you'll excuse me, I've got some midnight orchids that need my attention. Think about what I said, young lady. You'll be fine.
ARCHER: Thank you, Boothby.
(Boothby leaves.)
CHAKOTAY: Problems?
ARCHER: I was offered a field commission this morning. First officer of the starship HorCha.
CHAKOTAY: Congratulations.
ARCHER: It's a Klingon vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Oh. So what did Boothby say?
ARCHER: DuCha me gagh roh. Smile when you eat the gagh.
CHAKOTAY: Wise words.
ARCHER: Yeah.
CHAKOTAY: Do you always seek advice from the groundskeeper?
ARCHER: Half the Captains in Starfleet wouldn't be where they are today if it weren't for Boothby. Lopez, Picard, Richardson, just to name a few. Closing time.
CHAKOTAY: You offered to be my guide. Where's our next stop?
ARCHER: Can you dance?
CHAKOTAY: I've been accused of trying.
ARCHER: It's Pon Farr night at the Vulcan nightclub.
CHAKOTAY: Vulcan?
ARCHER: It's just around the corner.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Take it easy, Harry. We didn't build the Delta Flyer to withstand such extensive pacing.
KIM: He should have contacted us by now.
PARIS: Give him time.
KIM: Four hours?
PARIS: It's a date. These things can't be rushed. They probably just finished dinner, a couple of drinks, and now they are moving past the polite stage.
KIM: Polite stage? The last 8472 I met tried to dissolve me from the inside out.
PARIS: It was only trying to get to know you better, Harry. You can't fault a person for that. Look, Chakotay can take care of himself. And if he can't, who better than us to come to the rescue?

[Archer's quarters]

CHAKOTAY: Turns out the transporter malfunctioned. My uniform ended up in the pattern buffer.
ARCHER: You're kidding. You were naked?
CHAKOTAY: Not entirely. I had my commbadge.
ARCHER: I hope it was well-placed. Computer, lights.
CHAKOTAY: So this is where they're putting up officers nowadays. Not bad.
ARCHER: Can I get you something to drink?
CHAOTAY: Water's fine.
ARCHER: I'm beginning to think you're a teetotaller.
CHAKOTAY: I like to stay in control.
ARCHER: Always at yellow alert, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Something like that.
ARCHER: Find anything interesting?
CHAKOTAY: Beyond the Galactic Edge, Humanity's Quest for Infinity. This is a 21st century edition of Hesterman, isn't it?
ARCHER: Replicated. Good book though.
CHAKOTAY: Never read it.
ARCHER: You should. Human beings, they're quite a paradox.
CHAKOTAY: Oh? How so.
ARCHER: At first glance, they're so primitive. Genetic impurities, no telepathy, violent and yet they've created so many beautiful ways to communicate their ideas. Literature, art, music. At times, I've actually enjoyed being in this form. You must think I'm crazy.
CHAKOTAY: Not at all.
ARCHER: I wonder what they think about us?
CHAKOTAY: Hard to say.
ARCHER: I'll tell you what I think. They despise us. They'll attack any species that's not part of their Federation. Mmm. Speaking of being in human form. I could use an isomorphic injection. You need one?
CHAKOTAY: I'm fine.
ARCHER: Make yourself at home. (She goes into the next room, and Chakotay taps a small computer on a shelf into life and starts downloading the data to his tricorder. Archer returns in a bathrobe, and injects her thigh. The skin wibbles. He turns the computer off and goes to the picture window.)
ARCHER: Commander. How do you like the view?
CHAKOTAY: Lovely.
ARCHER: Looks like a full moon. You can see the entire bay on a night like this.
CHAKOTAY: I should have brought my holo-imager. You make a pretty picture.
(They go outside.)
ARCHER: Mmm, feel that? Salinated oxygen molecules, stimulating the epidermal and neural receptors. Non-fluidic space has its charms.
CHAKOTAY: No argument there.
ARCHER: Planet Earth. The simulation will be real soon enough.
CHAKOTAY: How soon do you think?
ARCHER: Weeks, days. As soon as they think we're ready.
CHAKOTAY: Can I be honest with you?
ARCHER: Please.
CHAKOTAY: I'm starting to wonder if all this is worth the effort.
ARCHER: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: This simulation, our mission. Are we certain the humans pose a threat?
ARCHER: They were allies with the Borg. They invaded our realm.
CHAKOTAY: That was one incident. That doesn't mean the entire Federation is planning a war against us.
ARCHER: We can't trust them. We have to prepare for the worst.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not so sure.
ARCHER: I think you've been human a little too long.
CHAKOTAY: Before you know it, I'll be sending my resume to the real Starfleet.
ARCHER: Alien from distant galaxy seeks employment. References available upon request.
CHAKOTAY: Well, it's getting late. I'd better go.
ARCHER: Already?
CHAKOTAY: I have a tactical report to finish before morning.
ARCHER: Aren't we forgetting something? I'm no expert at human dating rituals, but I think it's customary to kiss good night. You've never done this before.
CHAKOTAY: Actually.
ARCHER: Me, neither. Just think of it as part of our training.
(She backs him up against the door jamb and kisses him. Then Chakotay reciprocates enthusiastically, and leaves.Archer goes to her desk and takes out a scanner. She uses it
on her hand where it had touched Chakotay's skin, and activates her desk computer.)
BOOTHBY [on monitor]: Report.
ARCHER: I analysed his DNA. Your suspicions were correct.
BOOTHBY [on monitor]: How much does he know?
ARCHER: It's difficult to say. He'll have to be interrogated.
BOOTHBY [on monitor]: Where is he?
ARCHER: By now he should be in the main quad. I recommend we go to daylight. He'll be easier to track.

[Starfleet Headquarters - gardens]

(Night suddenly becomes day. Four people are following him.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. Delta Flyer, respond! (He shoots a man who is running towards him, then runs himself. But soon he is surrounded by humanoid 8472, who grab him and take him away.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Yes. Come in.
SEVEN: The Borg modifications are complete. Nineteen standard photon torpedoes and three class tens armed with high-yield warheads.
JANEWAY: More.
SEVEN: We ha've depleted our supply of nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: Replicate a new supply.
SEVEN: That is not possible.
JANEWAY: Have the Doctor extract them from your bloodstream. Grow them in a petrie dish. Whatever it takes. If we do engage 8472 I don't intend to run out of firepower mid-battle. You of all people should understand that. They killed, what, four million drones? Directive zero one zero. Before engaging alien species in battle, any and all attempts to make First Contact and achieve non-military resolution must be made. In this case, we made first contact over a year ago and we barely got out of it alive. It seems to me a battle is inevitable, maybe even war. So why can't I get that directive out of my mind?
SEVEN: This species intends to purge our galaxy of all life. It's time you resisted your Starfleet philosophy.
TUVOK [OC]: Captain to the Bridge.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The away team is hailing us.
JANEWAY: Tom.
PARIS [on viewscreen]: Chakotay's in trouble. He tried to contact us ten minutes ago, but his signal was cut off.
KIM [on viewscreen] Some kind of forcefield went up around the habitat. We can't get a lock on him.
JANEWAY: Has your vessel been detected?
PARIS [on viewscreen]: I don't think so. At least, no one's tried to take a shot at us yet.
JANEWAY: Hold your position. Keep trying to locate him. We're on our way.
PARIS [on viewscreen]: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Bring those Borg weapons online. Red alert. All hands to battle stations. Take us out of orbit.

[Quantum Cafe]

ARCHER: I thought you had a tactical report to finish.
BOOTHBY: What'll you have, son? I'm a single malt man, myself. Aged two hundred years. Been saving it for a special occasion, and I'd say this is special enough. A toast. To Earth. Chakotay. Rank, Commander. Starfleet service number forty seven alpha six one two. First officer, USS Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Species 8472. Origin, fluidic space.
BOOTHBY: Well, now that we've been formally introduced, how many ships? Cat got your tongue? I asked you a question. How many vessels do you have in the Delta Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: One.
ARCHER: How did you find us?
CHAKOTAY: We detected what looked like a Federation subspace transmission. It took us weeks to track it here.
BOOTHBY: We wanted this simulation to be accurate to the last detail. We obviously went a little too far. Now that you know about our re-creation, you've no doubt alerted the Federation. Your fleet will be on its way.
CHAKOTAY: You've got it wrong. We're not planning a war against you.
ARCHER: Is that why you were here to spy on us, because you're curious?
BULLOCK: Sir, a starship is approaching. It's Voyager.
BOOTHBY: Raise our shields. Stand by, all weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway is not here to launch an attack. She's here to find me.
BOOTHBY: We've got the real McCoy here. We might as well take advantage of it. Perform a genetic extraction. It may help us find a better way to maintain these human forms.
ARCHER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We are approaching the habitat.
JANEWAY: Shields to maximum. Charge weapons. All hands, this is the bridge. Tactical alert. Report to your posts and stand by to engage the enemy.
TUVOK: I have a visual. We're being scanned.
JANEWAY: Let them take a look.
SEVEN: The Delta Flyer is heading up from the habitat.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Tom, status?
PARIS [OC]: They've taken a couple of pot-shots at us, Captain. We've lost our shields. Mind if we join you?
JANEWAY: You're clear to dock. Shuttlebay two. Any word from Chakotay?
PARIS [OC]: I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: Bring us within range. Target their weapons array.
SEVEN: Captain, we should target their power systems as well.
JANEWAY: No, I don't want to risk shutting down their life support. If we can end this without casualties, so much the better.
SEVEN: This species does not deserve our compassion.
JANEWAY: You picked a lousy time for an ethical debate. The weapons array. Now.
TUVOK: We're entering weapons range. Thirty eight hundred kilometres. Thirty five hundred. Thirty two hundred.

[Quantum Cafe]

CHAKOTAY: Valerie.
ARCHER: That's not my name.
CHAKOTAY: Then what is it? You're afraid of us, aren't you. You think we're violent, that we're planning to destroy your species, but none of that's true. If you would take the time to speak to us directly, we could prove it to you. There are no secrets except the secrets that keep themselves.
ARCHER: Shaw.
CHAKOTAY: George Bernard Shaw. I saw a copy of his Collected Works on your bookshelf.
ARCHER: He had a complex mind, for a human.
CHAKOTAY: And he had a point. As long as we keep spying on each other, making assumptions, we probably will go to war.
(A klaxon sounds.)
ARCHER: Voyager.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Do the same.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Mister Boothby.
BOOTHBY [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Good to see you after all these years. Enjoying the Delta Quadrant?
BOOTHBY [on viewscreen]: Don't get sassy with me, young lady. This re-creation may be Starfleet but our weapons are far more sophisticated. I can destroy your vessel with a single command. Run along now.
JANEWAY: I'm not going anywhere. Not until you return my First Officer and give me a damn good explanation for what you're doing in our galaxy. I've targeted your re-creation with Borg nanoprobes, and we're willing to use them if you force us to.
BOOTHBY [on viewscreen]: Don't try to rattle my cage. I'll disable your tactical systems before you can
JANEWAY: The last time our species engaged in battle, you suffered heavy casualties. Are you willing to take that chance again? An armed conflict isn't going to solve our problems. We could go on making threats, spying on each other, risking a war between our species. Or we could try a more direct approach.
BOOTHBY [on viewscreen]: What do you have in mind?
JANEWAY: How about a class reunion?

[Briefing room]

BOOTHBY: Targ manure! United Federation of Planets, tolerance for all species, the Prime Directive. Targ manure, every word of it.
TUVOK: Your metaphor is colourful, but inaccurate.
BOOTHBY: Vulcan logic. Add that to the list.
JANEWAY: Obviously, you've studied a Starfleet database. You must have learned something about our history. We adhere to our directives.
BULLOCK: High-minded ideals are one thing, but your actions tell a very different story. You infiltrated our re-creation, captured and killed one of our people.
JANEWAY: I told you, he took his own life.
BULLOCK: You created biological weapons to infect our species. You are allies with the Borg.
BOOTHBY: There's a drone sitting at this very table. Look at her, all gussied up to look like a human being.
SEVEN: I am no longer part of the Collective.
BOOTHBY: Once a Borg, always a Borg.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine is a member of this crew.
BULLOCK: The Borg are irrelevant. It's the humans that pose a threat.
CHAKOTAY: They think the Federation is a hostile invasion force out to destroy their species.
JANEWAY: I see. So you're planning a pre-emptive strike against Earth.
BOOTHBY: Maybe I am.
JANEWAY: You realise I can't let that happen.
BOOTHBY: Go ahead, fire your damn nanoprobes. Blow our re-creation to high heavens. There are a dozen more scattered throughout the quadrant. You'll never find them all.
JANEWAY: What if I told you that Starfleet isn't planning an invasion? That no one on Earth has even heard of you?
BOOTHBY: I'd say you're lying.
JANEWAY: Have another look at that Federation database of yours. You'll see there's no mention of your realm.
BULLOCK: Immaterial. Any information regarding our species has no doubt been classified by Starfleet intelligence.
JANEWAY: Good point. You know, we could keep this paranoid debate going all day. You have no reason to trust us and we have no reason to trust you.
BOOTHBY: Hear, hear. I knew this reunion would be a fiasco. Admiral.
JANEWAY: Seven, disarm the warheads Do it,
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it.
(Seven goes to the wall monitor and complies.)
BOOTHBY: What are you trying to prove, young lady?
JANEWAY: One of us has to take our finger off the trigger. It might as well be me.
ARCHER: Their weapons are offline.
BULLOCK: It's a trick.
JANEWAY: Our defences are down. What will you do now? Blow Voyager to high heavens, or do we keep talking?
BOOTHBY: Humans. You've got a flair for the dramatic, I'll give you that. You want to keep talking? Fine by me, but no more beating around the bush. Now, what do you want from us? The truth, Captain.
JANEWAY: Voyager is alone in the Delta Quadrant. We haven't been in contact with Earth for over four years.
BOOTHBY: Explain why you attacked our realm, hand in hand with the Borg.
JANEWAY: At the time, we didn't realise the Borg had started the war against you. We forged a temporary alliance with them because we thought you were the threat.
SEVEN: Your galaxy will be purged. Sound familiar?
BULLOCK: We were only trying to defend ourselves.
TUVOK: If that's true, why are you still in our galaxy? Your conflict with the Borg ended over a year ago.
JANEWAY: Why re-create Starfleet, masquerade as humans? It looks to me like you're the ones planning an invasion. The truth.
BULLOCK: Don't answer her. She's manipulating us.
ARCHER: If you won't answer, I will.
BULLOCK: Commander.
ARCHER: Our mission is to infiltrate your home world, to place operatives in the highest levels of Starfleet, monitor your military installations. It's a reconnaissance mission, nothing more.
CHAKOTAY: We should listen to her, Captain. They're being driven by fear just like we are. Unless everything you said on our date was just part of an act.
ARCHER: It wasn't.
BULLOCK: Enough! We must not negotiate with these creatures.
BOOTHBY: Sit down, Admiral.
BULLOCK: Sir.
BOOTHBY: I said sit down, or I'll knock you right on your human butt.
BULLOCK: You've been seduced by them, both of you.
ARCHER: I've had a chance to see through human eyes and I'm beginning to wonder, are they really so violent? What if we're wrong?
BULLOCK: We can't risk trusting them.
ARCHER: You'd rather risk another war?
BOOTHBY: Keep talking, son.
CHAKOTAY: Archer's right. We've got to set aside our preconceptions about each other. Granted, our species didn't meet under the best of circumstances, but maybe we can make first contact again. Maybe this time we'll get it right.
BOOTHBY: You believe in this fellow?
ARCHER: Yes.
BOOTHBY: There would have to be a few ground rules.
JANEWAY: Name them.
BOOTHBY: First off, I want to take a look at that nanoprobe technology. It scares the hell out of me.
JANEWAY: All right, but I'll need some tactical information in return. Your genetic alteration techniques for a start.
BOOTHBY: I'm sure something can be arranged. You on board, Admiral? Good enough for me.

Captain's log, stardate 52136.4. We've managed to avoid a military conflict with Species 8472, at least for now. In an effort to strengthen the truce, we're exchanging technology.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: The design schematic for our nanoprobe weapons as requested.
JANEWAY: This could go a long way toward allaying their fears.
SEVEN: Perhaps.
JANEWAY: Have a little faith, Seven.
SEVEN: It's difficult to have faith in an idea which may prove tactically unsound.
JANEWAY: Tactically unsound? Perhaps. It could also be the first step toward peace. It's a risk I'm willing to take. Are you sure you won't join us? It would be your first chance to see Earth.
SEVEN: I prefer to remain aboard Voyager. If problems arise while you're in the habitat
JANEWAY: There won't be any problems. Nothing tactical, at any rate. We're entering a stage of diplomacy where most of the problems will be cultural. How do you shake hands with an 8472? We'll be fine.
SEVEN: When you ordered me to disarm the warhead during the negotiation, I anticipated an immediate attack. I believed they would take advantage of your human weakness. I was wrong. If I had been in your position, we would most likely be engaged in a battle with 8472 at this moment. How did you know?
JANEWAY: I didn't. Like I said.
SEVEN: Faith.

[Starfleet Headquarters - gardens]

BULLOCK: Welcome to Terrasphere Eight, Starfleet Command re-creation. I am Admiral Bullock and I'll be acquainting you with our facility. Questions, comments bring them to me. Problems talk to Lieutenant Kinis. Commander Tuvok, you wanted to examine our thermionic generators.
TUVOK: Yes.
BULLOCK: I'll take you there personally. Ambassador Nelix?
NEELIX: It's Neelix, sir.
BULLOCK: Neelix. You'll be joining the Lieutenant. He'll familiarise you with our environmental control technology.
NEELIX: Wonderful. I look forward to hearing your perspective on Vulcans.
(Elsewhere -)
JANEWAY: You didn't happen to re-create a little coffee shop on Market Street, the Night Owl?
BOOTHBY: Afraid not. You're welcome to stay. put your feet up. We won't be returning to fluidic space for another day or two.
JANEWAY: Thank you, but the real Earth is a long way from here. I'd like to get back on the road. What are the chances they'll listen to you?
BOOTHBY: I can't promise you the moon, Captain. My superiors aren't as forward thinking. Peace with humans? Wow. They're going to hit the roof. But I'll tell them what happened here today, and with a pinch of luck a few of them might see the light.
JANEWAY: Well, you've got Voyager's comm. frequency. You know how to contact us. I hope we can keep this process alive.
BOOTHBY: Don't call us, we'll call you. Oh, I almost forgot. Ahh.
(He takes a rose from his bag.)
BOOTHBY:  Genetically synthesised, but they smell just as lovely.
JANEWAY: Oh.
(And elsewhere again.)
CHAKOTAY: Looking forward to going home?
ARCHER: At least I can finally get out of this form.
CHAKOTAY: No more insomnia.
ARCHER: No more sleeping, period.
CHAKOTAY: For what it's worth, you made a terrific human.
ARCHER: Shame.
CHAKOTAY: Hmm?
ARCHER: It's too bad our species are so different, otherwise I'd ask you for a second date.
CHAKOTAY: You did offer to be my guide. How about a tour of your realm sometime?
ARCHER: I'd like that.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'm due back on Voyager. We leave at oh four hundred.
ARCHER: I'll never get a chance to do this again.
(Kissing, long and slow.)
ARCHER: Any better this time?
CHAKOTAY: You're a quick study.


S5 E5
Once Upon A Time
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 11 November 1998

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]
(Birds singing, brightly covered moss on the trees. Precocious Miss Wildman hurries through her holonovel to a raised pond with crazy paving surround and throws a pebble in amongst the water lilies.)
FLOTTER [OC]: Ouch!
NAOMI: Wake up.
FLOTTER [OC}: Who's there?
NAOMI: Naomi.
FLOTTER [OC]: Come back later.
NAOMI: You know what I think? I think you're scared of the tree monster.
(A fountain appears, and solidifies into a blue person with scales on his body.)
FLOTTER: I'm not scared of any tree monster, Miss Wildman, but, as you know, I need my beauty sleep.
NAOMI: Sorry I woke you, but we have a mission.
FLOTTER: You and your missions. Lucky for you, your old pal Flotter has everything ready. Follow me. I've laid a trap. When he climbs this tree, he'll trip the alarm. Tree monsters are terrified of high-pitched noises.
NAOMI: I never heard that.
FLOTTER: Oh, it's a well known fact. The bell will scare him high into those branches where counterweights will bend the treetop till it springs back, catapulting him pond-ward and, splash! He'll sink like a log.
NAOMI: But Flotter, logs float.
FLOTTER: Details, details.
(The bark-skinned tree monster looks down at them.)
TREVIS: That is a terrible plan.
NAOMI: It's him!
TREVIS: The name's Trevis. And you are?
FLOTTER: Flotter. Flotter T. Water III.
TREVIS: Well, of course you are, drippy. You.
NAOMI: Naomi Wildman, but my friends call me Naomi.
TREVIS: I don't recognise your element. You're not earth or water or plasma.
NAOMI: I'm human.
TREVIS: Where do you live?
NAOMI: In space.
TREVIS: Nobody lives in space.
FLOTTER: She does. On a starship called Voyager.
NAOMI: I'm an explorer.
TREVIS: Really? An explorer. Timber. (he drops to the ground.) What's that like? 
NAOMI: Well, you know, space battles with aliens, strange anomalies.
TREVIS: May I visit your starship?
NAOMI: Well, I'll have to ask my mom.
FLOTTER: You know, for a monster, you're very polite.
TREVIS: That's because I'm not a monster. (He pulls Flotter's bell rope.)
TREVIS: You see that? I'm not scared one bit. My bark is worse than my bite.
NAOMI: Maybe we jumped to conclusions about him.
FLOTTER: Well, he may not be a monster, but he is stealing my water with his roots.
TREVIS: Stealing? Absurd. Why, I ought to dry you up.
FLOTTER: And I ought to chop you down!
TREVIS: You want a piece of me?
NAOMI: Excuse me! It sounds like you two need each other. I mean, think about it. Flotter, your water helps his trees grow, and Trevis, your branches shade his pond from the sun. It's a well-known fact that the sun makes water evaporate.
FLOTTER: She's got a point.
TREVIS: The girl's a thinker.
NAOMI: Now, shake hands and make up.
(They do. Neither likes the feel of the other's skin.)  
TREVIS: Urgh. Moist palms.
FLOTTER: Urgh, sappy fingers.
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Holodeck two.
NAOMI: Naomi here.
NEELIX [OC]: It's bedtime.
NAOMI: Can't I stay a little longer?
NEELIX [OC]: You know the rules.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Besides, someone special wants to say good night.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]

NAOMI: Mom! Computer, end programme.

[Wildman's Quarters]

WILDMAN [on monitor]: And how's Flotter?
NAOMI: Grouchy as ever, but we made a new friend today named Trevis. I'll introduce him to you tomorrow as soon as you get home.
(The signal is not good.)
WILDMAN [on monitor]: I'm afraid the away mission may take a few more days, sweetheart.
NAOMI: Days?
WILDMAN [on monitor]: Yes, but I'm bringing you back some beautiful sillinite crystals and lots of holo-pictures for your data album. Now be a good girl and get ready for bed while I talk to Neelix.
NAOMI: All right.
WILDMAN [on monitor]: Sweet dreams.
(Naomi goes to her bedroom.)
NEELIX: Samantha?
WILDMAN [on monitor]: We ran into an ion storm.
NEELIX: How bad is it?
WILDMAN [on monitor]: We took a real beating. We're trying to make repairs, but there's another storm on the way. Better go. Say goodnight for me

[Delta Flyer]

WILDMAN: I've lost the comm. signal.
TUVOK: A level seven ionic front is closing aft at thirty three thousand kph.
PARIS: I need more power to the thrusters If I'm going to outrun it.
WILDMAN: I'll see what I can do.
TUVOK: The leading edge is approaching.
WILDMAN: I've given you all the power I can spare, Tom.
PARIS: It's not enough. I can't keep ahead of this thing. Brace for impact!

[Briefing room]

TUVOK [OC]: Mayday, Mayday. Delta Flyer to Voyager. Need assistance. Warp drive is. Impulse power is down. Thrusters only. The ion storms damaged the primary systems. Life support is failing. Searching for an emergency landing site. Require immediate assistance.
CHAKOTAY: That was their last transmission. We haven't been able to raise them since.
TORRES: If they're looking for a place to land, they must be in pretty bad shape.
JANEWAY: Anything on long range sensors?
KIM: We lost their signature when the second ion storm hit, but we've triangulated the co-ordinates of the distress call. They've entered a planetary system about point six light years from here.
TORRES: The problem is there's another ion storm, a level five, blocking our path.
JANEWAY: Level five? We've been through worse. Let's just batten down the hatches and reinforce the shields. We're not going to let a little bad weather stand in our way.
NEELIX: What about Naomi?
CHAKOTAY: I guess somebody's going to have to explain why her mother's not back.
NEELIX: Maybe we shouldn't tell her anything.
JANEWAY: Why not?
NEELIX: She's a very sensitive girl. I don't want to alarm her unnecessarily. With any luck, we'll have her mother back before she starts to worry.
JANEWAY: Well, you're closer to her than anyone. I'm inclined to let you take the lead on this.
NEELIX: Thanks, Captain.
JANEWAY: All right. Consider it your mission to keep her occupied.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Mess hall]

NAOMI: I was thinking.
NEELIX: Oh?
NAOMI: It's time I carried my weight around here.
NEELIX: Ah. They could use a hand in the Airponics bay.
NAOMI: I was thinking more of the bridge.
NEELIX: Captain's assistant.
NAOMI: Would I get to fly the ship?
NEELIX: Well, we'd have to take it up with the Captain.
(Seven enters with Kim and a crewwoman.)
SEVEN: Need to check the internal sensors.
NAOMI: Neelix, don't move.
NEELIX: What's wrong?
NAOMI: The Borg lady.
NEELIX: She has a name, you know.
NAOMI: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one. Don't look! She'll assimilate you.
NEELIX: Naomi, Seven is a nice person, and she's a valuable member of this crew.
NAOMI: I don't want to be in her Collective.
NEELIX: I don't think there's much danger of that.
KIM: Hey, Neelix. Hey, Naomi. Neelix, can I talk with you?
NEELIX: Yes. I'll be right back.
KIM: Sickbay's running short on emergency medkits. We're going to need a few more if we send another away team after the shuttle.
NEELIX: I've got half a dozen stockpiled in Cargo Bay two.
KIM: How is she?
NEELIX: On the Naomi anxiety Scale of one to ten, where one is a touch of insomnia and ten is a panic attack? About five.
SEVEN: Is this chair occupied? Yes or no would suffice.
NAOMI: No. I mean, yes.
SEVEN: Explain.
NAOMI: You can't sit here. Somebody else is sitting here.
SEVEN: Very well.
(Seven walks away, and Neelix returns to his seat.)
NEELIX: So, I thought we'd pay another visit to Sickbay. The Doctor says he has time to give you a botany lesson. What's wrong?
NAOMI: I am Borg.
NEELIX: No, you're not.
NAOMI: Can we go to the holodeck first? I want to play another Flotter story.
NEELIX: Well, the Doctor's expecting you.
NAOMI: I don't like Sickbay.
NEELIX: Why not?
NAOMI: It's full of creepy things. Alien organs and hyposprays.
NEELIX: Well, that's not true.
NAOMI: And the Doctor talks too much.
NEELIX: Well, that's his way.
NAOMI: Can't you reprogramme him or something?
NEELIX: Oh, I don't think he'd like that very much. Come on.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Rumour has it there's a planetoid around here.
WILDMAN: Sorry, Tom. The storm is throwing off my readings. There's definitely a big rock nearby, I just can't find it.
TUVOK: The wave front is accelerating.
PARIS: How long till it hits us?
TUVOK: Less than two minutes.
PARIS: Gives me thirty seconds to land this thing. Samantha, I don't mean to rush you.
WILDMAN: Got it. Class M atmosphere, nickel-iron core, bemonite mantle.
PARIS: Bemonite. I want to land this shuttle, not bury it.
WILDMAN: Seventy three thousand kilometres, bearing zero mark four.
TUVOK: We've entered the upper atmosphere.
WILDMAN: Nothing but impact craters, volcanoes. We can't land here.
TUVOK: The storm is closing. Increasing shields to maximum.
PARIS: Just keep us away from the volcanoes and we'll be okay.
WILDMAN: I've got a big meteor crater, five hundred kilometres across, three point seven deep.
PARIS: I'll take it.
TUVOK: Starboard thrusters are down.
PARIS: Tuvok, if you don't have something positive to say.
WILDMAN: We're coming in too fast!
PARIS: Hang on!
(Bang, thump, crunch!)
PARIS: The Flyer has landed.
(Tuvok is tending to an unconscious Wildman.)
TUVOK: She needs immediate medical assistance.
(Later -)
WILDMAN: What happened?
PARIS: We made it.
WILDMAN: Delta Flyer's first landing. Where?
PARIS: About three kilometres beneath the surface. At least our primary hull's still in one piece.
WILDMAN: Wish I felt the same.
PARIS: You'll be all right. Minor concussion, a few fractures. Nothing I can't handle.
WILDMAN: You're a great nurse, but you're a lousy liar.
PARIS: You've got a punctured kidney, and you're bleeding internally. You need surgery.
WILDMAN: Voyager?
TUVOK: I've transmitted another distress call. No response.
PARIS: It's all this rock.
WILDMAN: I've got to talk to Naomi. Let her know we're okay.
TUVOK: Conserve your strength, Ensign. Mister Paris and I have the situation under control.
PARIS: Nice bedside manner, Tuvok. Sam, I'm going to give you a mild sedative and something for the pain. Any chance we could abandon the shuttle, make our way on foot?
TUVOK: Unlikely. Not only are we buried under several kilotons of rock, but the atmosphere in this cavern is flooded with fluorine gas.
PARIS: Nothing to do but sit back and enjoy the view.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've weathered the ion storm and tracked the Delta Flyer to an M-class planetoid.

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm detecting a residual impulse signature in the upper atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: Try to pinpoint their location.
JANEWAY: How's our littlest crew member?
NEELIX: She misses her mother, but I don't think she suspects anything. I was just about to take her to the holodeck for some more storytelling.
JANEWAY: Call me an optimist, Neelix, but I'm still counting on a happy ending.
NEELIX: Me, too.
KIM: Got it. The impulse wake leads to the northern hemisphere. Coordinates one twenty one mark sixteen.
JANEWAY: Any sign of them?
KIM: Plasma fires, hull fragments. Either they vaporised on impact or they're buried beneath the surface.
NEELIX: Any life signs? Maybe they beamed out before the crash.
JANEWAY: Harry, anything?
KIM: Nothing.
JANEWAY: We built the Delta Flyer to take a lot of punishment. I'm betting it held together. Commander, take rescue teams down to that crater. If sensors can't find them, we'll have to do it the hard way.
CHAKOTAY: Harry.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Now, see the organelle just over there? The one that looks like a little bitty potato?
NAOMI: The mitochondria?
EMH: Yes.
NAOMI: Mitochondria. The warp core of the cell.
EMH: Exactly. Now what if I told you that this fellow was invited to dinner, but never got around to leaving?
NAOMI: What do you mean?
EMH: Well, turn back the clock a few billion years to when cells first evolved. These early cells had no mitochondria. They struggled along without them, making do with whatever energy sources they could find. Then, one day a mitochondrial ancestor arrived, broke though the cell wall, and made himself at home.
NAOMI: They became friends?
EMH: The correct term is symbiosis.
NAOMI: Friends.
EMH: Friends.
NAOMI: My mom says cooperation is more important than competition.
EMH: Mmm hmm.
NAOMI: She was supposed to call me today.
EMH: Well, she's probably just a little busy. Now, let's have a look at the cell wall. It looks simple enough, but believe you me there's more here than meets the eye.
NAOMI: Can we try to call her?
(Neelix enters.)
EMH: Neelix, what a pleasure to see you!
NEELIX: How was school today?
NAOMI: Good.
NEELIX: There's a time for school, and there's a time for
NAOMI: Flotter!  
(Naomi runs for the door.)
NEELIX: Aren't you forgetting something?
NAOMI: Oh. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: You're quite welcome, Miss Wildman.

[Corridor]

NAOMI: In the blink of an eye there was Trevis above us.
NEELIX: Then what happened?
NAOMI: He turned out to be very nice. His bark was worse than his bite.
NEELIX: Where did you learn to make such silly puns?
NAOMI: You.
NEELIX: Oh.
NAOMI: Neelix, did you have a favourite holodeck programme when you were growing up?
NEELIX: Well, we didn't have holodecks on Rinax, but it didn't matter because we had a great big forest right behind my house.
NAOMI: Really?
NEELIX: And my sisters and I would go exploring every day. We'd make up our own stories.

[Turbolift]

NAOMI: Imagination.
NEELIX: Exactly.
NAOMI: Deck six, section nine. Where are your sisters now?
NEELIX: Oh, they're far away from here. I haven't seen them in a very long time.
NAOMI: How long?
NEELIX: Many years.
NAOMI: But you haven't been on Voyager for that long.
NEELIX: True, but before that, my work as a trader kept me away from home.
NAOMI: That's too bad.

[Corridor]

NAOMI: Do your sisters ever call you like my mom does when she's on an away mission?
NEELIX: No.
NAOMI: I bet you miss them.
NEELIX: I do, very much. Here we are. Computer, display chapter headings, The Adventures of Flotter. Let's see. Ah, Flotter and the Tree Monster?
NAOMI: Played that one yesterday.
NEELIX: Okay. Trevis and the Terribly Twisted Trunk.
NAOMI: I promised I'd save that one for mom. It's her favourite.
NEELIX: Flotter, Trevis and the Ogre of Fire.
NAOMI: Yeah, that one.
NEELIX: It sounds a little scary.
NAOMI: It's okay. I won't be scared if you're with me.

[Holodeck - The Forest of Forever]

COMPUTER: Once upon a time in the Forest of Forever, Flotter and Trevis encountered a strange element they'd never seen before.
(Trevis is crying because the tip of his finger is burning.)
NAOMI: Trevis, you're on fire!
FLOTTER: I told him not to touch it, but this blockhead never listens.
(A branch is burning nearby.)
NAOMI: Stop complaining and help him.
FLOTTER: Me?
NAOMI: Water puts out fire.
(Flotter quenches the flame with his hand.)
TREVIS: Oh, thank you!
FLOTTER: Hey, it worked! Watch this.
(Flotter sprays the burning branch with water from his finger, and it goes out.)
NEELIX: Good thinking, Naomi.
FLOTTER: Who's the furball?
NEELIX: The name's Neelix.
NAOMI: What caused the fire?
TREVIS: It came from up there.
FLOTTER: In a flash.
NAOMI: Lightning. But the sky is clear. Doesn't look like a thunderstorm.
NEELIX: What's your theory, Naomi?
NAOMI: There's only one other explanation. The Ogre of Fire.
FLOTTER: The Ogre?
TREVIS: Of Fire.
FLOTTER: Who's he?
(A fireball appears.)
OGRE [OC]: He is me, and I'm going to burn this forest to the ground!  
(Flotter gets caught in the fireball, and vanishes.)
NAOMI: Flotter!  
(Moments later, the forest is charred and smoking.)
NEELIX: Maybe, maybe we should play another programme.
NAOMI: No, we have to find Flotter. Hello, is anyone there?
TREVIS: Over here.
NAOMI: Trevis, are you all right?
TREVIS: Ah hah. A little hot under the bark maybe.
NAOMI: What about Flotter? Is he dead? Neelix?
NEELIX: Well, I, I don't know.
NAOMI: He can't be dead. Flotter!
NEELIX: I think it's your bedtime.
NAOMI: But I want to find Flotter.
NEELIX: Now, don't argue with your godfather. Come on, now.

[Engineering]

KIM: Take this to Lieutenant Torres. You'll find the phaser drills in Cargo Bay three.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
NEELIX: Are you sure you have time for this? I know you're busy.
KIM: No problem. Glad to be of service.
NEELIX: Maybe a shade bluer. And the head's a little disproportionate don't you think?
KIM: We're not shooting for an exact replica, Neelix. Artistic license.
NEELIX: Sorry. Guess I shouldn't barge into your kitchen and tell you how to cook.
KIM: Flotter. Now there's a name I haven't heard in a while. I used to be nuts about those holostories when I was a kid. Did you see the one where Flotter suspects Trevis to be a rubber tree?
NEELIX: Not yet.
KIM: He keeps trying to trip him to see if he'll bounce. Yeah, those two were a lot of fun.
NEELIX: Actually, the last scenario that Naomi chose was pretty frightening. No fun at all.
KIM: Kids love to be scared.
NEELIX: Not Naomi.
KIM: Computer, transfer the design parameters to the replicator. How's she holding up?
NEELIX: Fine. Right now she's busy with her homework.
KIM: Neelix, what's wrong?
NEELIX: Everything. Everything's wrong! Ion storms, crash landings, alien attacks. A starship's no place for a child.
KIM: I don't know. I'd say Naomi's pretty lucky to be growing up on Voyager.
NEELIX: Lucky?
KIM: Think about it. Think about all the things she's experienced, stars being born, supernovas, lifeforms no one from the Alpha Quadrant has seen before. When I was a kid I would have given anything for a chance like this. Well, here goes.
(The replicator produces a stuffed Flotter doll.)
KIM: Hi, Neelix. Did you miss me? You know, I forgot how ugly this guy was.
NEELIX: Thanks, Ensign.

[Wildman's Quarters - Naomi's Bedroom]

NEELIX: Naomi. Guess who I found in the replicator?
NAOMI: Thanks, but that's not really Flotter.
NEELIX: Flotter's not really Flotter. He's just a holodeck character. What are you working on?
NAOMI: I'm researching the evaporation of water.
NEELIX: Why?
NAOMI: Well, I've been thinking. Water doesn't just disappear when it's heated. It turns into invisible gas. So, if we could get the forest to cool down enough, Flotter might re-liquefy.
NEELIX: Clever.
NAOMI: I miss mom.
NEELIX: I know you do.
NAOMI: When's she coming back?
NEELIX: Soon.
NAOMI: Why hasn't she called?
NEELIX: She must be very busy, cataloguing all the geological specimens she's collected.
NAOMI: Has anybody talked to her?
NEELIX: Well, not in a day or two, but.
NAOMI: Starfleet regulation four seven six dash nine. All away teams must report to the bridge at least once every twenty four hours.
NEELIX: You really are going to make an excellent Captain's Assistant.
NAOMI: Has something bad happened to them?
NEELIX: I'm sure everything's fine. Come on, now. Bed.
NAOMI: Promise to wake me up if mommy calls?
NEELIX: Promise.
NAOMI: Even if it's oh two hundred hours?
NEELIX: Even if it's oh two hundred hours. Sweet dreams.
NAOMI: Neelix?
(She points towards the Flotter doll, which she left by the desk monitor. Neelix takes it to her, to cuddle.)

[Wildman's Quarters - living room]

NEELIX: Computer, access personal database, Neelix. File index two nine one. Hello, Alixia. I'm sorry it's been so many weeks since I've thought about you, but we've been very busy here on Voyager. I miss you. My goddaughter, Naomi, she's in trouble. We're in trouble. She may lose her mother. Alixia, you always knew the right thing to do, the right thing to say. I wish you were here to help me.

[Dream - Forest of Forever]

(Neelix and other Talaxians are running for their lives.)
NEELIX: Come on! Hurry! We're under attack!
(His companions fall.)
NEELIX: Get up! The Metreon cascade! Run!
(Fireballs incinerate his companions. He wakes on the Wildman's couch with a start, then checks that Naomi is sleeping peacefully before leaving.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Computer, switch to polythermal imaging and enhance resolution. Neelix, do you require assistance?
NEELIX: No. No, I was just passing by. I thought I'd pay you a visit, see how things were going. How are things going?
SEVEN: I'm mapping the caverns surrounding the crash site.
NEELIX: How far do they extend?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty seven kilometres.
NEELIX: What about the search? Anything new?
SEVEN: Every scan reveals something new, but as yet little of relevance.
NEELIX: Seven. Your family, your human family, do you ever think about them?
SEVEN: Infrequently. I was only six years old when I was assimilated.
NEELIX: Not much older than Naomi is now. Do you miss your parents?
SEVEN: I barely remember them.
NEELIX: Maybe that's a blessing.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Rescue team alpha to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We need that data.
SEVEN: I will meet you at the transporter site. I adapted. The child Naomi will adapt as well.
NEELIX: Borg wisdom.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Lieutenant, get me an update from Beta team. They haven't checking in for over an hour.
NEELIX: Coffee, anyone? Captain?
JANEWAY: No thanks, I've had enough. One more cup and I'll jump to warp.
NEELIX: Any new?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not.
NEELIX: No debris? No lifesigns?
JANEWAY: We've got three teams beneath the surface. So far, nothing.
NEELIX: So much for that happy ending.
JANEWAY: We'll turn that planetoid inside out if we have to, but I think we have to be prepared for the worst. Maybe it's time you told Naomi.
NEELIX: No, not yet.
JANEWAY: She's an astute girl. She must be aware that something's wrong by now.
NEELIX: She's been asking a lot of tough questions. Why hasn't her mother filed a status report? What if she's in trouble? But I've got a big day planned for her tomorrow. Plenty of distractions. She won't have time to be worried.
JANEWAY: Your mission was to keep her occupied, not to lie to her. First thing in the morning, I want you to explain the situation.
NEELIX: I don't think that's such a good idea.
JANEWAY: Why not?
NEELIX: Like I told you, she's sensitive.
JANEWAY: All the more reason to answer her questions.
NEELIX: With all due respect, Captain, I'm her godfather. I know what's best for her.
JANEWAY: Neelix.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I realise you care about Naomi and you are only trying to protect her, but you've got to tell her the truth.
NEELIX: Good morning, Naomi. Would you like some papalla juice with your cereal? And, oh, by the way, your mother is buried under thirty kilotons of rock.
JANEWAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: When we know something for sure. When we find her mother, alive or dead, I'll, I'll tell her then. Not before.
JANEWAY: If you can't do it, I will.
NEELIX: You don't have the right. You don't understand what's at stake here! When you were her age you were safe and sound on Earth with two healthy parents to take care of you. You never had to worry about the possibility of being alone! You take it from me, you wouldn't have liked it.
JANEWAY: Oh, I know. You must identify with Naomi's situation.
NEELIX: When my family was killed, I lost everything. I still have nightmares. It hasn't been easy. I don't want Naomi to go through what I did.
JANEWAY: I understand. And you're right. But this situation is different.
NEELIX: How so?
JANEWAY: Naomi has you. Neelix, she has to be told. But I know she'll be better off having you here to help her through it.
NEELIX: First thing in the morning.
JANEWAY: We've got a few hours until then. Why don't you come back on the bridge, give us a hand.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Ready, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Ready.
PARIS: Cross your fingers. (Paris presses a control in a panel, and a console explodes.)
TUVOK: The magnetic relays have overloaded.
PARIS: Well, we'd better find another way to polarise this hull, or their sensors won't be able to pick us up.
WILDMAN: We're never getting out of here.
TUVOK: Do not give up hope. The probability of our being rescued is low, but not statistically impossible.
PARIS: Comforting.
WILDMAN: Who's going to look after Naomi?
TUVOK: You should not concern yourself with that now.
WILDMAN: How can you say that?
TUVOK: My youngest child has been without a father for four years, yet I am certain of her well-being, that I conveyed my values to her before leaving. And I have confidence in the integrity of those around her. You have been an exemplary mother to Naomi, and she is in the hands of people you trust. She will survive and prosper, no matter what becomes of us.
WILDMAN: Thanks, Tuvok.

[Wildman's quarters]

(Naomi wakes suddenly.)
NAOMI: Mom! Neelix? Computer, locate Neelix.
COMPUTER: Neelix is on the Bridge.
NAOMI: Thanks.

[Corridor]

(Naomi hides in the transporter room.)
TORRES: Strickler, we need three more phaser drills. You two, pattern enhancers and medkits.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
TORRES: We're going to have to recalibrate these tricorders.

[Transporter room]

TORRES: Put us with the alpha team.
CREWWOMAN: Setting coordinates.
TORRES: Energise.

[Turbolift]

NAOMI: Deck one bridge.

[Planetoid - cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. We've found what looks like a piece of the starboard nacelle.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Any sign of the shuttle itself?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Not yet.
(Unseen, Naomi steps off the turbolift.)
SEVEN [OC]: Captain, the cavern has collapsed ahead of us. However, I am reading a hull signature behind the debris.
JANEWAY: The Flyer?
SEVEN [OC]: I'll need to take a closer reading.
JANEWAY: Do it. I want Alpha and Beta teams to search for survivors. Tell sickbay to stand by for heavy casualties.
NEELIX: Naomi. Naomi?
(Naomi runs back into the turbolift.)

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Naomi! Computer, locate Naomi Wildman.
COMPUTER: Naomi Wildman is in her quarters.

[Wildman's quarters - Naomi's bedroom]

(Toy Flotter is wearing her comm badge.)
NEELIX: Clever.

[outside the Holodeck]

NAOMI: Computer, resume programme, Flotter, Trevis and the Ogre of Fire.
COMPUTER: Programme activated.

[Planetoid - cavern]

SEVEN: Commander, I'm reading duranium alloys. I believe it is the shuttle. Approximately eighty metres beneath this rubble.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
SEVEN: None. Commander, without lifesigns to lock onto we cannot beam the crew out.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can transport the entire ship to the shuttle bay.
SEVEN: Through fifty kilotons of bemonite?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY: We think we've found the shuttle, but we need to dig it out.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Have all teams rendezvous at my coordinates.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Planetoid - cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Phaser drills here and here.

[Delta Flyer]

(Paris is recording a personal message.)
PARIS: But hey, B'Elanna, look on the bright side. No more day-old pizza laying around, and you'll never have to watch another chapter of Captain Proton again.
COMPUTER: Warning. Life support has fallen to critical levels.
PARIS: Don't mind the computer. She's just jealous that I'm spending my last few minutes talking to you. So long.
(Recording ends.)
PARIS: Sam, it's your turn.
WILDMAN: I haven't thought what to say yet. Tuvok, why don't you go next?
TUVOK: I prefer to make my farewells in written form.
(Paris helps Wildman to the pilot's seat.)
WILDMAN: Computer, begin recording. Encode message for delivery to Naomi Wildman.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
WILDMAN: Hi, honey. I know you're feeling sad right now but, I want you to listen to me very carefully, okay? First of all, I love you. Second, I want you to know that I'm proud of you. How smart you are, how funny, how kind you are to other people, and I know that you are going to grow up to do extraordinary things. Last, and I know this is a hard one, try not to be scared.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in ten minutes.
WILDMAN: Listen to Neelix. He'll be taking care of you now. Bye, honey.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]

NEELIX: Naomi?
TREVIS: Go away!
NEELIX: Where is she?
TREVIS: She doesn't want to talk to you.
FLOTTER: You lied.
NEELIX: I thought you vaporised.
FLOTTER: Naomi re-liquefied me. Now leave.
NEELIX: Computer, delete characters.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls have been encoded.
TREVIS: Delete us?
FLOTTER: I wonder if this liar can swim?
TREVIS: We can always hang him from one of my branches.
NEELIX: Naomi, please let me talk to you.
NAOMI: It's okay.
TREVIS: You be nice.
FLOTTER: No more lying.
NEELIX: Hey there.
NAOMI: Is my mother dead?
NEELIX: We don't know.
NAOMI: What happened?
NEELIX: The away team was trying to avoid an ion storm. They had to land on a planet.
NAOMI: I saw that crater. Something was burning.
NEELIX: Plasma fires, pieces of debris, but not the hull. Until we know for sure what's happened, no one's giving up on the rescue attempt.
NAOMI: You really think they might find her?
NEELIX: Yes.
NAOMI: How do I know you're telling me the truth this time?
NEELIX: I never told you this before, but when I was much younger I lost my mom in a terrible war. My father and my sisters too. It was the worst thing that ever happened to me. Always wondering, how did they die? Were they worried about me? Could they still be alive? I thought if I could just keep you from wondering, you wouldn't have to feel what I did.
NAOMI: You were pretending that nothing was wrong. That nothing bad happened. Do you ever pretend that nothing bad happened to your family?
NEELIX: Sometimes.
NAOMI: Does it help?
NEELIX: Not really.
NAOMI: Don't be sad, Neelix.
JANEWAY [OC]: All hands to emergency stations. We've got a level eight ion storm approaching.
FLOTTER: Ion storm? What's that?
TREVIS: Ogre of Fire! He's attacking us again.
NEELIX: You'd better get back to your quarters.
FLOTTER: Naomi, don't leave us.
NAOMI: I'll be back, I promise.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Voyager to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: We've got another ion storm approaching. When it hits the planetoid, your entire cavern is going to destabilise.

[Planetoid - cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Just a few more metres and we'll be close enough to beam out the shuttle. How long before the storm hits?
JANEWAY [OC]: Six minutes.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Make the most of it. It's all you've got.
(Minutes later.)
KIM: The storm's moving in. Shields down to eighty six percent.
JANEWAY: Keep the transporter lock on the away team. Give them to the last second. Helm, lay in a course out of here. Stand by to engage at warp two.
CREWWOMAN: Aye, sir.

[Delta Flyer]

COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in two minutes.
PARIS: I never thought it would come down to this. Suffocating beneath kilotons of rock on some nameless planetoid.
TUVOK: Did you envision a more heroic death?
PARIS: I didn't envision dying at all.
TUVOK: In accepting the inevitable, one finds peace.
PARIS: If that's another Vulcan saying, Tuvok, I'll stick with live long and prosper.
(They hear the sound of the laser drills. Paris thumps on the hull.)
PARIS: We're here. We're here!

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Pattern enhancers are in place. We're ready to transport the Flyer.
KIM: Locking on. They're in the shuttlebay.
JANEWAY: Helm, engage.

[Sickbay]

(Neelix enters with a delighted Naomi.)
WILDMAN: Thank you.

Captain's log, supplemental. Ensign Wildman has recovered from her injuries, and the Delta Flyer, though battered, is intact.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]

(The Forest has been restored to its colourful state. Naomi and her mother are walking along the path.)
FLOTTER: And how are you today, Mister Trevis?
TREVIS: Feeling a little stiff, my slippery friend. And you?
FLOTTER: Now that you mention it, I'm feeling a little washed out.
TREVIS: Well, it's about time you showed up. The tea is getting cold.
(Neelix is with the two characters.)
FLOTTER: Samantha? Is it really you?
WILDMAN: Long time no see.
FLOTTER: You're all grown up.
WILDMAN: I'm an Ensign now.
FLOTTER: I've missed you.
WILDMAN: Likewise.
NEELIX: Well, now that you're all reacquainted, I think you're all eager for a new adventure.
FLOTTER: Now that you mention it, there is a castle that I've been meaning to explore.
NAOMI: Castle?
FLOTTER: I hear a giant beetle lives there.
NAOMI: Come on, Neelix.
NEELIX: You go ahead.
WILDMAN: See you later.
(They all run off and leave Neelix.)
JANEWAY: Here's to happy endings.
NEELIX: Captain!
JANEWAY: Just checking on my future Captain's Assistant.
NEELIX: Right now, she's off to conquer a giant beetle.
JANEWAY: Oh, sounds like a dangerous mission.
NEELIX: She can handle it.
JANEWAY: She's a courageous girl. Did I ever tell you about the time I flooded this entire forest? I was six years old. Flotter claimed we were in for a dry spell so I came up with the obvious solution. Why not just divert the river? This entire forest was a swamp by the time we were done. At which point, Stinger was born.
NEELIX: Stinger?
JANEWAY: The biggest mosquito.


S5 E6
Timeless
Stardate: 52143.6
Original Airdate: 18 November 1998

[Glacier surface]
(Two figures beam onto an ice planet wearing thermal suits. They pick their way carefully across the uneven snow-covered surface until the tricorder beeps.)
KIM: We're here!
(We pull back to see the faint details of Voyager's hull beneath the ice.)
KIM: The glacier fractures are stable.
CHAKOTAY: We're clear to beam inside.
TESSA [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Frozen Corridor]

KIM: Not exactly the way I remember it.
(They scrape ice off a wall display and attach a power supply.)
KIM: Power grid's been destroyed. Neural gel packs frozen solid. Decks nine through fourteen are now deck ten. They've been compacted.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they hit the ice at full impulse. The EMH?
KIM: I'm trying to access Sickbay. The relays aren't responding. I'm losing the interface. Reset the power cell. Come on!
CHAKOTAY: Let's get moving. Keep an open comm. link.

[Frozen Bridge]

(Some emergency lighting is still flickering. There are frozen bodies in the frost on the decks and in the Jefferies tubes. Chakotay finds Janeway, but kneels next to Seven.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Tessa.

[Delta Flyer]

TESSA: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I've found her. Lock on to the

[Frozen Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Transporter relay and beam her to the lab.
TESSA [OC]: Stand by.
CHAKOTAY: Make it quick. This isn't exactly a happy reunion.

[Delta Flyer]

TESSA: I've got a lock.

[Frozen Sickbay]

(Kim coaxes the systems into life.)
EMH: Please state the nature of
KIM: Long time no see.
EMH: Ensign.
KIM: I go by Harry now. It's a long story. Where's your mobile emitter?
EMH: What's happened to the ship? The crew?
KIM: No time. The emitter.
EMH: It's in here, but
KIM: Here. Slap it on. Ket's go.
EMH: Wait! I demand an explanation.
CHAKOTAY: I'll give you one. We're here to change history.

[2375 Engineering]

(All the crew is gathered and applauding. There are streamers and confetti, Torres carries a bottle of champagne, which she breaks against the railing around the warp core.)
JANEWAY: Ladies and gentlemen, please. May I introduce the next generation of instellar propulsion, the Quantum Slipstream Drive. Four years, two months, eleven days. That's precisely how long Voyager's been in the Delta Quadrant. During that time we've advanced the frontiers of exploration, and more importantly, we've survived. Now it's time to go home. Enjoy the celebration but keep in mind we've still got a lot of work to do before tomorrow's flight. Go easy on that champagne, Lieutenant.
(Strolling with Chakotay.)
JANEWAY: Quantum Matrix, benamite crystals, Borg technology. Can you imagine what Starfleet is going to say?
CHAKOTAY: I don't think we'll hear any complaints. The Federation's first Slipstream drive. They'll probably nominate us for the Cochrane Medal of Honour.
JANEWAY: I'll start working on my acceptance speech.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to thank the Borg Collective.
JANEWAY: Dinner plans?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing special. Date with a replicator.
JANEWAY: Cancel it, that's an order.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
NEELIX: Lieutenant. Lieutenant! Excuse me. My contribution to the Slipstream Drive.
TORRES: Thanks. What is it?
NEELIX: A Talaxian fur fly. An old spacefaring tradition among my people. If one of these creatures stowed away on your ship, it was a sign of good fortune. I had this little fellow preserved. He hung in my engine room for six years.
TORRES: Cute.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, you are an unending source of astonishment.
NEELIX: Why, thank you, Mister Vulcan.
EMH: Seven?  
(Seven is staring at the back of her hand.)
SEVEN: My visual processors and motor cortex. They are malfunctioning.
EMH: Sounds like a problem with your cortical implant. We'd better have a look. Hold still.
SEVEN: I cannot comply.
EMH: You're intoxicated.
SEVEN: Impossible.
EMH: Your blood synthehol level is point zero five percent. How many glasses of champagne did you consume?
SEVEN: One.
EMH: Obviously the Borg can't hold their liquor. Come to Sickbay. I'll give you some inaprovaline to counteract the effects.
SEVEN: I was simply trying to perfect my social skills as you instructed me to do.
EMH: And you're doing a fine job.
SEVEN: You have always been of enormous assistance to me, Doctor. You are my mentor.
EMH: Yes.
SEVEN: We are as one. We are as one.
KIM: Did you see that?
PARIS: Hmm?
KIM: I think our drone did a little too much celebrating. Speaking of which, when are you going to join the party?
PARIS: In a minute.
KIM: You're running a warp core diagnostic now?
PARIS: Harry, I think we built an Edsel.
KIM: A what?
PARIS: A lemon. A disaster waiting to happen! I ran a simulation last night and I discovered a point four two phase variance in the slipstream threshold.
KIM: Point four two? So it'll be a bumpy ride. We've flown through worse.
PARIS: If we get knocked out of that slipstream mid-flight it could overload the quantum matrix.
KIM: Did you tell the Captain?
PARIS: Not yet. Didn't want to spoil the festivities until I was sure.
KIM: Tom, if it'll make you feel better, we'll go to the holodeck right now, run a few more simulations. It's probably just a sensor glitch.

[2375 Holodeck - Bridge]

PARIS: We're at full impulse.
KIM: Engaging Slipstream Drive. Quantum field is stable, deflector at maximum.
PARIS: Slipstream velocity in four, three, two. Power output is steady. Quantum field is holding.
KIM: Shields down to seventy three percent.
PARIS: Looking good. Keep that deflector aligned and we should be
KIM: We've got a phase variance. Point one, point two.
PARIS: Remodulate the deflector.
KIM: No effect. Point four.
PARIS: I'm shutting down the drive.
KIM: No, wait. I want to try to invert the Quantum field.
PARIS: It's no use, the slipstream is collapsing. Inertial dampers are offline.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach on deck ten.
KIM: We're losing structural integrity.
PARIS: Computer, freeze programme!
KIM: One more time. I think if we reroute emergency power to the deflector a little earlier
PARIS: It won't help.
KIM: Computer, restart simulation at time index
PARIS: Computer, belay that order. It's no use, Harry.
KIM: We can't just give up.
PARIS: Twenty three simulations, twenty three catastrophes. This is no sensor glitch. We've got to tell them.

[2375 Engineering]

TORRES: That can't be right. We tested this engine molecule by molecule.
PARIS: I'm sorry, B'Elanna.
SEVEN: I wish to examine the results of the simulation.
PARIS: Holodeck two. Run them for yourself. That is, if you don't mind being vaporised a few dozen times.
CHAKOTAY: I looked at their findings, Captain. If we try to take that flight in the morning, we'll be in escape pods by afternoon.
TUVOK: It would appear we have no choice but to cancel it.
PARIS: Either that or, we can try it Harry's way.
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: I've got an idea. It's tricky, but I think it could work. The trouble begins about seventeen seconds into the flight. The phase variance kicks in and the Slipstream becomes unstable. What we need is someone in a shuttle to ride the rapids in front of Voyager.
TORRES: Yes. They could map the threshold of the Slipstream as it's forming and send the phase corrections back to us. That is a great idea, Harry.
KIM: Now, here's the tricky part. The shuttle will only be a couple of seconds ahead of Voyager. That doesn't give auto-navigation much time to compensate.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Couple of seconds?
KIM: We can do this, Captain. Put me on that shuttle. I'll get Voyager through the Slipstream. What choice do we have? Take the drive offline? Months of work for nothing?
TUVOK: We built a highly experimental piece of technology. There were bound to be setbacks.
KIM: The benamite crystals at the heart of this engine have already started to decay. It could take years to synthesise more. I don't know about the rest of you, but I didn't do all this work just to be stopped by a point four two phase variance. No offence, Captain.
JANEWAY: None taken. All right, Mister Kim. You've convinced me. Prepare a flight plan and have it on my desk within the hour.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I'll let you know what I decide.

[2375 Janeway's quarters]

(The table is set with candles and flowers. Soft piano music plays in the background.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Commander, I hope you've got an appetite.
CHAKOTAY: Famished, but I assumed you called me here to talk about the Slipstream flight.
JANEWAY: No reason to cancel our dinner plans. I've programmed a dish my grandmother used to make back on Earth. Vegetable biryani.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds delicious. I didn't know you could cook.
JANEWAY: Normally, I draw the line at a pot of coffee, but tonight is a special occasion.
CHAKOTAY: Oh?
JANEWAY: Our last night in the Delta Quadrant. I'd say that's special enough.
CHAKOTAY: You've made your decision.
JANEWAY: We launch tomorrow at oh eight hundred. You and Harry will take the Delta Flyer. Voyager will be right behind you.
CHAKOTAY: The crew will be pleased.
JANEWAY: You can give them the news yourself, after dessert. What about you, Chakotay? What do you think about my decision?
CHAKOTAY: I've analysed Harry's flight plan. The theory is sound, but there are just too many variables. If something goes wrong in that slipstream
JANEWAY: It could be our only chance to use the Quantum Drive.
CHAKOTAY: True, but if you showed this data to any Starfleet engineer, they'd think we were out of our minds. We can find another way home. We've waited this long.
JANEWAY: Long enough. We've waited long enough. I know it's a risk, probably our biggest one yet, but I'm willing to take it. Are you with me?
CHAKOTAY: Always.
JANEWAY: Speaking of risks. Are you ready to try some home cooking?
CHAKOTAY: I'll alert Sickbay.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

EMH: Fifteen years?
KIM: Give or take a few weeks.
EMH: Where are we?
CHAKOTAY: In the Takara sector, just outside the Alpha quadrant.
EMH: The crew?
KIM: Except for us, dead.
CHAKOTAY: We think Captain Janeway tried to make an emergency landing on this planet. The ship must have been too heavily damaged. They were all killed on impact.
KIM: They've been buried inside a glacier for the past fifteen years.
(Now they are taking off their thermal suits, we get a look at the older Kim and Chakotay. Chakotay's hair has long silver streaks at the temples. Kim has just a few strands of silver. Their hair styles are subtly different, too.)
EMH: You two were here, on the Delta Flyer, ahead of Voyager. You made it.
KIM: All the way back to Earth. We got home, Doc, and all it took was killing everyone we cared about.
CHAKOTAY: Harry!
EMH: Starfleet certainly took their time finding us.
KIM: Starfleet. Starfleet gave up their search for Voyager over nine years ago. We had to find you on our own.
EMH: Well, I don't know what to say except thank you. I suppose I'd have stayed in that deep freeze forever.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here to salvage your programme. We're here to prevent this disaster from ever happening.
KIM: You see Doc, fifteen years ago, I miscalculated the Slipstream threshold and transmitted the wrong phase corrections to Voyager. Boom! They were knocked out of the Slipstream and sent to an icy death. Thank you, Ensign Kim. But I've had a long time to rethink my mistake, and now I know how to fix it. So, we're going to send Voyager a new set of phase corrections.
EMH: Isn't it a little late for that?
CHAKOTAY: We've found a way to communicate with Voyager, in the past, just before the accident.
KIM: Better late than never.
EMH: A message back through time?
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
EMH: How?
(Kim opens a stasis unit to reveal a defrosted Seven.)
EMH: I don't understand.
CHAKOTAY: One of her cranial implants is a transceiver designed to communicate with other drones.
EMH: That's right. It's called an interplexing beacon.
CHAKOTAY: We want you to extract the beacon and determine its translink frequency.
EMH: That shouldn't be a problem. She looks reasonably well-preserved.
CHAKOTAY: Good. That'll tell us where to send the message. Now the hard part. We need to know when to send it. Can you access Seven's chronometric node and pinpoint the exact moment her cybernetic implants disengaged from her organic systems?
EMH: Her time of death?
CHAKOTAY: Down to the millisecond, if possible.
EMH: I'll see what I can do.
KIM: I told you he'd come in handy.
EMH: You said you'd found a way to communicate with Seven in the past. How?
KIM: Behold. Salvage component three six six nine eight. A Borg temporal transmitter.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet Intelligence found it in the wreckage of a Borg cube in the Beta Quadrant.
KIM: We stole it.
(Tessa enters.)
TESSA: Trouble. Long range sensors are picking up a Federation vessel.
CHAKOTAY: How much time do we have?
TESSA: I entered a low orbit and remodulated our shields, but it won't be long before they find us. Six hours if we're lucky.
EMH: Let me get this straight. You're fugitives?
KIM: The Galaxy's most wanted. We stole the Delta Flyer too, right out of a Federation shipyard. We're wanted on two counts of high treason and conspiracy to violate the Temporal Prime Directive.
EMH: Wonderful. Out of the icebox and into the fire.
CHAKOTAY: We don't have time for this. Get started.
EMH: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: We still have to retrieve those sensor logs. Get ready.
(Tessa starts to put on a thermal suit.)
TESSA: Hello, Doctor.
EMH: Do I know you?
TESSA: No, but I feel like we're old friends. Tessa Omond.
EMH: Hello.
TESSA: It's an honour to finally meet Voyager's infamous EMH.
EMH: Infamous?
KIM: I've told her a few horror stories.
TESSA: Actually, they've always spoken very highly of you.
EMH: Ah ha. And how did you get involved with Bonnie and Clyde here?
TESSA: Oh, I've had an interest in Voyager for a long time.
KIM: They're having sex.
EMH: Pardon?
KIM: Chakotay and Tess. They're a couple, joined at the hip.
TESSA: The truth is, Doctor, I didn't want Chakotay or Harry to have to face this alone. I thought I could help.
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
KIM: Stay warm.

[2390 Frozen Bridge]

TESSA: These controls are a little clumsy. I thought you said this ship was state of the art.
CHAKOTAY: It was, at the time.
TESSA: I've located the sensor logs but, the computer is denying me access.
CHAKOTAY: My command codes should still carry some weight.
(He sits in his old chair, and pauses for a while.)
CHAKOTAY: Looks like there's an active file here.
JANEWAY [OC]: But should our luck run out, I'd like to say for the record that the crew Voyager acted distinction and valour.
TESSA: You okay?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. It's just the last time I was in this chair, they were all here. Alive.
TESSA: We're here to get them back.
CHAKOTAY: Can I see that tricorder?
(He puts it on the pop-up screen between the two chairs.)
CHAKOTAY:  It's downloading. Give it a minute.
TESSA: I don't supposed we have time for a tour.
CHAKOTAY: Afraid not. Besides, I left my quarters a mess. In just a few hours, if all goes as planned, we'll have changed history. The past fifteen years erased. We don't have to do this.
TESSA: Now you tell me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm serious.
TESSA: So am I, and I have no intentions of backing out. Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Look at me. Last minute jitters, cold feet, I don't know what to call it. Ridiculous, isn't it? After all these years working toward this moment, and when it finally comes, all I can think about is losing you.
TESSA: Your heart has always been here, on Voyager. That'll never change. This is where you belong. And who knows, maybe we'll meet someday.
CHAKOTAY: But if we don't.
TESSA: Then I'll miss you all the same.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

(Kim is dictating a message.)
KIM: It means all of that has changed. You owe me one.
EMH: Mister Kim, your assistance please.
KIM: Got to go.
EMH: What was that all about?
KIM: Oh, nothing. Letter to a friend. How's it look?
EMH: No damage to the infrastructure, but I'll need an isoprobe.
KIM: Way ahead of you, Doc.
EMH: So what was it like, your homecoming?
KIM: Antimatter fireworks, long-winded dignitaries, a Vulcan children's choir. Oh, we got medals pinned to our tunics. Chakotay gave a speech commemorating the Voyager crew. Brought a tear to everyone's eye. Admiral McIntyre even wanted me to marry his daughter.
EMH: At least you weren't buried under twenty metres of ice.
KIM: You don't know how many times I wished I was.
EMH: I suppose it must have been difficult, with all your friends and colleagues left behind.
KIM: Survivor guilt. Yeah, I heard a lot about that from the counsellors back at Headquarters. You must learn to accept the fact that you lived. Embrace life, move forward. I signed on at the first deep space vessel I could find. We tried to calculate where Voyager might have fallen out of the slipstream. Four years of searching. We were close, I could feel it! Then Starfleet Command said it was time to end the search. Low probability of success. All those admirals who shook my hand at the homecoming. I went to see every last one of them, begged them to keep the search alive. Pretty soon even Admiral McIntyre stopped returning my calls. So I resigned from Starfleet.
EMH: For the record, Seven's translink frequency is one zero eight point four four two three six zero zero zero.
KIM: Could be our lucky number. I'm encoding it now.
EMH: When did you embark on your life of crime?
KIM: The second I heard about this little gem.
(The temporal transmitter.)
EMH: Mister Kim, did you ever stop to think about what you're trying to do here? Altering the timeline may make things worse. At least you and Chakotay survived. Why tempt fate?
KIM: This timeline only exists because I made a mistake fifteen years ago. The crew trusted in me and I let them down.
COMPUTER: Tactical alert. Vessel approaching, bearing one eight four mark seven.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

KIM: They've found us. Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead.
KIM: Starfleet's on an intercept course. It's now or never.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're on our way.
KIM: If you're having doubts let me know. I'll take your programme offline. But if you're with us, we tempt fate together.
EMH: To aid an honourable thief, or to spend eternity in cybernetic oblivion. Let's tempt fate.

Captain's log, stardate 52143.6. With any luck, my next log entry will be made in the Alpha quadrant. But should our luck run out, I'd like to say for the record that the crew of Voyager acted with distinction and valour.

[2375 Delta Flyer]

(Chakotay is at the helm.)
CHAKOTAY: Shield generators?
KIM: Online.
CHAKOTAY: Plasma flow?
KIM: Stable.
CHAKOTAY: Comm. link?
KIM: Secure.
CHAKOTAY: Lunch.
KIM: Salami sandwiches.
CHAKOTAY: Feel up to this, Ensign?
KIM: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. We're ready.

[2375 Bridge]

JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Take your stations, secure all systems, and stand by for the jump to Slipstream.
SEVEN: I've established a telemetry link with the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Match their course and speed.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

TESSA: They're gaining on us. Two hundred thousand kilometres and closing. You call these evasive manoeuvres?
(Chakotay is the pilot here, too.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm doing my best. Harry, status!

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

KIM: The Borg transmitter's online but I'm still waiting for the Doctor to give me the temporal coordinates.
EMH: Just a few more minutes.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Speed it up. We've got a Galaxy class starship on our tail.
EMH: I'm working as fast as I can.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

TESSA: They're hailing us. You want to talk to them?
CHAKOTAY: Could buy us some time. Open a channel.
LAFORGE [on monitor]: This is Captain La Forge of the Starship Challenger. You seem to be in quite a hurry.
(Geordi is in a DS9 style uniform with an All Good Things comm.badge. He doesn't wear the VISOR any more, either.)
CHAKOTAY: You could say that.
LAFORGE [on monitor]: Why don't you shut down those impulse engines, drop your shields. Let's talk about this face-to-face.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I take a rain check?
LAFORGE [on monitor]: As a matter of fact, I do. We know what you're about to attempt and we can't let that happen, so the Federation Council is willing to make you an offer. Hand over the Borg transmitter, stand down your vessel, and the charges of conspiracy will be dropped.
TESSA: That's not much of an offer. If we succeed, those charges will never have existed in the first place.
LAFORGE [on monitor]: If you succeed, countless lives will be affected.
CHAKOTAY: We're here to save one hundred and fifty lives. Our crew.
LAFORGE [on monitor]: I understand and I might be doing the same thing if I were in your position, but I've got my own crew to protect, not to mention fifteen years of history. So, I'm asking you again. Stand down, and return the transmitter.
CHAKOTAY: You know I can't do that.
LAFORGE [on monitor]: And you know I have to try to stop you.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, I know. Good luck.
LAFORGE [on monitor]: Same to you.  
(Transmission ends. Whumph!)
TESSA: They're targeting our engines.
CHAKOTAY: Shields to full. Stand by weapons.

[2375 Bridge]

JANEWAY: Voyager to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Prepare to enter the Slipstream.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Engage.
PARIS: Slipstream velocity in four, three, two.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

TESSA: Shields down to sixty two percent.
CHAKOTAY: Return fire.
TESSA: Direct hit. No effect on their shields. We're no match for them, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Keep trying.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

KIM: I don't mean to be a pest, but we're losing power back here!
TESSA [OC]: Hold on.

[2390 Delta Flyer - bridge]

TESSA: We're switching to emergency back-up.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

KIM: Thank you. Doc, I need those temporal coordinates now!
EMH: Badgering me won't help.

[2375 Bridge]

SEVEN: I'm detecting a phase variance. Point one, point two.
JANEWAY: Helm?
PARIS: Still waiting for Harry.
SEVEN: Point three.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Delta Flyer. We need those corrections or we'll have to

[2375 Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY [OC]: Shut down the drive.
KIM: We're on it, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: The threshold is fluctuating.
KIM: Okay, I can do this. I'm compensating for the spatial gradients. Deflector geometry stable. Got it!

[2375 Bridge]

PARIS: I'm receiving the phase corrections.
SEVEN: The phase variance is decreasing.
TUVOK: Shields are holding
JANEWAY: Looks like we're on our way.
SEVEN: Phase variance is increasing. Point three. Point four.
JANEWAY: Harry, what's happening?

[2375 Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY [OC]: The phase variance is still increasing.
KIM: I'm not sure, Captain. It should be working.
JANEWAY [OC]: I need an answer, Harry. We're running out of time.
KIM: Let me try recalibrating the sensors.

[2375 Bridge]

KIM [OC]: I might be overcompensating for the variance in the
TUVOK: We've lost our comm. link.
PARIS: Telemetry's down too. The Slipstream's destabilising.
JANEWAY: Shut down the drive!
PARIS: I can't. There's some kind of overload in the Quantum Matrix. I've lost helm control.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

EMH: I have it. Her cybernetic systems were terminated on Stardate 52164.3. Borg time index: 9.43852. You're encoding the transmitter for time index 9.40? That's less than four minutes before Voyager was destroyed! Cutting it a little close, aren't we?
KIM: This is no ordinary phone call, Doc, We're talking to yesterday. Timing is everything. I want to make sure Seven of Nine gets the information at just the right moment. There. I'm bringing up the new phase corrections. This was where I failed fifteen years ago, Doc. This time will be different.

[2375 Bridge]

SEVEN: Captain, I am receiving a transmission.
JANEWAY: I thought you said the comm. link was down.
TUVOK: It is.
SEVEN: The signal is being routed through one of my cranial implants. It contains a new set of phase corrections.
JANEWAY: Does Harry know how to access your Borg systems?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: He must have figured out a way. Enter the corrections.
SEVEN: They're not compensating for the phase variance. The Slipstream is collapsing.
JANEWAY: Full power to the deflector.
TUVOK: No effect.
PARIS: Our hull is buckling!
JANEWAY: Shields at maximum. Hold her steady, Tom.
PARIS: It's no use, we're losing attitude control. Inertial dampers offline!
JANEWAY: What about the Delta Flyer?
SEVEN: There is no sign of them. They must have remained in the Slipstream.

[2375 Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: Voyager's been thrown into normal space.
KIM: Alter our Slipstream course. We've got to go back.
CHAKOTAY: We can't. Even if they survived re-entry at this velocity, we wouldn't.
KIM: What are you saying? We've got to find them!
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, there's no choice.
(Kim slumps to the deck.)

[2375 Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, we're just a few parsecs from the Alpha quadrant.
JANEWAY: Not exactly how I wanted to cross the finish line.
TUVOK: Hull breach on decks five through ten. We're losing life support. If we don't land the ship, we're risking structural collapse.
PARIS: I'm reading a planet nine million kilometres ahead. It's class L.
JANEWAY: Do it. We're coming in too fast! Reverse thrusters. All hands, brace for impact!
(Voyager clips a mountain, then slams into the snow over the glacier. The hull digs in as they slide along.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

KIM: We're still here. Why are we still here?
EMH: Mister Kim?
KIM: The new phase corrections didn't work.
EMH: Are you certain?
KIM: If Voyager had gotten through safely, we wouldn't still be here trying to save them. The transmitter's functioning. Seven must have received our message. Chakotay, problems.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: I can see that.
TESSA: Our engines are down. They're locking onto us with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Full thrusters.
TESSA: No effect.
CHAKOTAY: Do we have enough power to send a plasma surge through their tractor beam, break ourselves free?
TESSA: I think so, but the EPS relays have taken heavy damage. It could destabilise the warp core.
CHAKOTAY: If you want to beam over to that ship, I'll understand.
TESSA: And let you have all the fun?
CHAKOTAY: Harry, we just bought you a few more minutes.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

KIM: Acknowledged.
EMH: I'm no time travel expert, but can't we just call Voyager again? The past isn't going anywhere.
KIM: That's not going to help if we don't know what to tell them. The Slipstream kinetics look right. Hyperdimensional progressions, perfect. Maybe it's the deflector geometry.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

TESSA: We're free.
CHAKOTAY: The EPS relays are overloading. Harry, we're looking at a possible core breach in less than three minutes. How's it

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Coming back there?
KIM: Great, just great! It took me ten years to make these corrections. I can't fix it in three minutes!
EMH: You've got to try.
KIM: I can't! It's not working. Why won't it work? I killed them!
EMH: Control yourself!
KIM: They trusted me, and I killed them!
EMH: Mister Kim! I didn't spend all those years in an ice bucket so I could listen to you berate yourself. If you want to wallow in self-pity, fine! Do it on your own time.
KIM: Don't you see? History's repeating itself! I destroyed Voyager once, and I'm doing it again!
EMH: Somebody has got to knuckle down and change history, and that somebody is you.
KIM: It can't be done, Doc. I told you.
EMH: No, you told me you can't correct their phase variance. All right, we have to accept that. But what about sending Voyager a warning? Is there a way to get them to abort the Slipstream flight?
KIM: Yes. Yes! I could send a phase correction which would disperse the Slipstream entirely.
EMH: If we can't get the crew home, at least we can save their lives.

[2390 Delta Flyer]

COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in sixty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Can you eject the core?
TESSA: No. Emergency systems are offline.
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Delta Flyer. Our sensors are reading an overload in your warp matrix. Lower your shields. We'll beam you out of there.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the offer, Captain, but the answer's no. I suggest you get to a safe distance.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in forty five seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, now would be a good time.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]

EMH: Mister Kim.
KIM: It's losing power.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
KIM: Your emitter. It's got its own power source.
EMH: Will it be enough?
KIM: It's our only chance. Glad you could join us, Doc.
EMH: It's been a pleasure.
(The EMH vanishes.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in fifteen seconds.
KIM: Chakotay, I'm giving this one more try.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two.
(Chakotay and Tessa hold hands.)
KIM: Yes!  
(The Delta Flyer goes KaBOOM!)

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Captain, I am receiving a transmission.
JANEWAY: I thought you said the comm. link was down.
TUVOK: It is.
SEVEN: The signal is being routed through one of my cranial implants. It contains a new set of phase corrections.
JANEWAY: Does Harry know how to access your Borg systems?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: He must have figured out a way. Enter the corrections.
PARIS: Captain, the Quantum drive just went offline! We're dropping to impulse.
TUVOK: Captain, we've lost the Slipstream.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: The Slipstream collapsed. We were thrown out right along with Voyager.
KIM: Our comm. system's back up.

[Bridge]

KIM [OC]: Delta Flyer to Voyager. What happened?
JANEWAY: You miscalculated, Harry. We entered the exact phase corrections you sent to Seven of Nine. They shut down the Quantum drive.

[Delta Flyer]

KIM: Captain, I didn't send any corrections to Seven of Nine.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: She received a message through one of her cranial implants. It wasn't you?

[Delta Flyer]

KIM: No, ma'am.

Captain's log, supplemental. Our Slipstream flight may have been brief, but it took nearly ten years off our journey. I've given the order to dismantle the Quantum Drive until the technology can be perfected. Despite the setback, we have a renewed sense of momentum. It no longer seems a question of if we get home, but when.

[Mess hall]

(Night. Kim is working at a desk computer when Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: At ease. Am I interrupting?
KIM: No. I just came here to try to figure things out.
JANEWAY: Phase corrections.
KIM: The corrections I sent you were wrong. If you had used them, Voyager would have been heavily damaged, maybe even destroyed. What I can't figure out is who sent the other phase corrections to Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Looks like we've got a guardian angel.
KIM: Oh, I wish I could believe that.
JANEWAY: Believe it. His name is Harry Kim.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Seven found a Starfleet security code embedded in the transmission. Yours.
KIM: I'm telling you, I didn't send it.
JANEWAY: Not yet. The transmission had a temporal displacement. We believe it originated from the future. Ten, twenty years from now. We can't be sure.
KIM: Wait a second. If I sent a message from the future and changed the past, then that future would no longer exist, right? So, how could I have sent the message in the first place? Am I making any sense?
JANEWAY: My advice in making sense of temporal paradoxes is simple. Don't even try. To me, all that matters is that somewhere, somehow, sometime, you come through for us. And if you won't take it from me, take it from you. Seven found a log entry encoded in the telemetry. From Harry Kim, to Harry Kim.
(Janeway leaves.)
KIM [on monitor]: Hello, Harry. I don't have much time, so listen to me. Fifteen years ago, I made a mistake and one hundred and fifty people died. I've spent every day since then regretting that mistake, but if you're watching this right now, that means all of that has changed. You owe me one.
EMH [OC]: Mister Kim, your assistance please.
KIM [on monitor]: Got to go.


S5 E7
Infinite Regress
Stardate: 52188.7
Original Airdate: 25 November 1998

[Cargo Bay two]
(Seven wakes from a cacophany of voices.)
COMPUTER: Regeneration cycle incomplete.
(She prowls around the cargo bay, searching for something, then goes out into the corridor. In the Mess hall she sniffs some food then knocks other bowls onto the floor. She finds what she is looking for in a cabinet - a leg of meat. The reflection in the metal is that of a Klingon, knawing on the bone.)

[Briefing room]

KIM: When I checked the overnight sensor logs this little surprise was waiting for me.
JANEWAY: Maybe I'm not quite awake, but it looks like it's over one hundred kilometres wide.
KIM: One hundred twenty. At first I thought it was an asteroid cluster, until I picked up a residual warp signature.
SEVEN: It was a Borg vessel. There are tetryon particles in the debris consistent with the atmosphere inside a Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what destroyed it?
SEVEN: We would need to run close range scans of the hull fragments.
KIM: Unless we alter course, we'll get our chance. The debris field's directly ahead.
JANEWAY: Then I suggest we cut a wide berth. Chances are the Borg will send more vessels to investigate. Alter course to avoid the debris. If that's all.
NEELIX: Ah, one other piece of business, Captain. It seems we had another incident in the Mess hall last night.
TORRES: Return of the Midnight Snacker?
NEELIX: I'm afraid so.
JANEWAY: Casualties?
NEELIX: A leg of Kelaran wildebeest I'd prepared for Ensign Ryson's birthday. Since Commander Tuvok has been unable to round up any suspects, I'd like to ask that stronger measures be taken.
TUVOK: Perhaps an armed security detail.
NEELIX: I'd like to ask permission to replicate some locking mechanisms for the cabinet doors.
JANEWAY: Granted. Dismissed.

[Corridor]

(Seven opens a Jefferies tube access door, and Naomi Wildman hides in an opposite side corridor. She tapps on her PADD as Seven closes the door and walks on. Naomi comes around the corner and is face to navel with Seven.)
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, subunit of Ensign Samantha Wildman. State your intentions.
NAOMI: I
SEVEN: Very well. You leave me no choice but to report your activities to the Captain.
NAOMI: Please don't. I was just observing you.
SEVEN: Explain.
NAOMI: Well, Neelix told me that the Borg do a lot of things they do because they're trying to be perfect. And even though you're not really a drone anymore, you still try to be perfect. Don't you?
SEVEN: Correct.
NAOMI: Well, if I can learn to be perfect, too, then Captain Janeway will have to make me her Bridge Assistant.
SEVEN: No such rank exists aboard this vessel.
NAOMI: Not yet.
SEVEN: And you hope to achieve this goal by emulating me?
NAOMI: Are you mad?
SEVEN: No. There are many on this crew that would benefit from your example.
NAOMI: So you'll teach me?
SEVEN: Your objective is admirable. However, your neocortical development is incomplete. You would require several months of accelerated growth in a Borg maturation chamber.
NAOMI: Oh, I don't think I like the sound of that.
SEVEN: Then I suggest that you
(The voices return briefly, then Seven turns and smiles at Naomi. Her voice is younger and slightly higher pitched.)
SEVEN:  Hey.
NAOMI: Hi.
SEVEN: I'm bored. Let's do something fun.
NAOMI: Like what?
SEVEN: Swimming?
NAOMI: Oh, I'm not allowed to go swimming without my mom.
SEVEN: Do you like Kadis-kot?
NAOMI: Love it.
SEVEN: Come on!
(They run off down the corridor hand in hand, giggling.)

[Wildman's quarters]

(Kadis-kot is a hexagonal board where the players move coloured pieces around.)
NAOMI: I'll be Bridge Assistant for a while, then I'll be promoted to Ensign. It'll be Lieutenant after that, and by the time we reach the Alpha Quadrant, Captain Wildman. Green, grid fourteen four.
SEVEN: Kadis-kot! I win.
NAOMI: You're really good at this game.
SEVEN: You want a rematch?
NAOMI: Sure.
SEVEN: Captains don't have much time to play, you know.
NAOMI: That's okay. I'll be pretty busy by then. Want to hear the rules of First Contact?
SEVEN: No.
NAOMI: How about the suborders of the Prime Directive? I know all forty seven of them.
SEVEN: You study too much, Naomi, just like my brother.
NAOMI: I didn't know you had a brother.
SEVEN: Twelve of them.
NAOMI: Twelve?
SEVEN: Nine older and three younger. We play Kadis-kot all the time.
NAOMI: I only have my mom and Neelix to play with, when they're not working.
SEVEN: You must get lonely.
NAOMI: A little. You get used to it. You adapt.
SEVEN: Adapt?
NAOMI: You know, like the Borg.
SEVEN: Borg. I hate Borgs.
NAOMI: You do?
SEVEN: Yeah, they're mean.
TORRES [OC]: Torres to Seven of Nine. Please report to Engineering.
SEVEN: It's your move.
TORRES [OC]: Seven, respond.
(Seven stops being a little girl.)
SEVEN: I am on my way, Lieutenant. Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: Yes?
SEVEN: What am I doing here?
NAOMI: We're playing Kadis-kot. Seven?

[Engineering]

TORRES: Take a look at this, will you? I'm picking up an energy signal in the lower subspace bands, and if I'm not mistaken it's got a Borg modulation.
SEVEN: You are correct. It is Borg. I believe it's a neural interlink frequency.
TORRES: A what?
SEVEN: A frequency that integrates the minds of Borg drones.
TORRES: Can you pinpoint the origin?
SEVEN: I will try.
TORRES: No offence, Seven, but you look terrible.
SEVEN: I am not well. I experienced a brief lapse in memory and I am disoriented.
TORRES: Maybe you should get to Sickbay.
SEVEN: No. This interlink frequency could explain my
(The voices again.)
SEVEN: Do'Raq Merash.
TORRES: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: I am the son of K'vok! And you, what House are you from?
TORRES: Is this some kind of a joke?
SEVEN: You wear the uniform of a Starfleet P'Cha! What kind of a warrior are you?
TORRES: Tom put you up to this, didn't he? Well, it didn't work.
SEVEN: Come, warrior, let me look at you.
TORRES: Enough, Seven.
SEVEN: Your blood is sweet!
(Seven bites Torres' cheek. Torres throws her off.)
TORRES: Torres to Security. Get somebody down here right now.
SEVEN: You are strong. You will make an excellent mate.
TORRES: Get the hell away from me!
SEVEN: You wish to prove yourself in battle.
(She pushes her way past two security men and runs out into the corridor.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine attacked B'Elanna in Engineering. She's on deck nine, section twenty three.
JANEWAY: Forcefields. Don't tell me those two have actually come to blows.
(Seven knocks out another security guard and takes his phaser before discovering she is hemmed into a corner by forcefields.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Tuvok. Seven's been contained. Deck ten, section thirty two.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. We're nearing her position.
(When they arrive, Seven is sitting, hugging her knees. She uses a little girl voice.)
TUVOK: Seven?
SEVEN: Somebody's hurt and he needs help. Did I do something bad?
TUVOK: Who are you?
SEVEN: My name's Maryl. Are you a Vulcan?
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate forcefield. Give me the phaser. (She does, and he deactivates it before handing it to his colleague. Seven hears the voices again. She stands.)
SEVEN: You are not a physician, Commander. The logical course of action would be to take him to the infirmary.
TUVOK: Maryl?
SEVEN: Subaltern Lorot, Vulcan High Command. May I be of assistance?
TUVOK: Yes. Please accompany me to Sickbay.
SEVEN: Certainly. Clearly he was attacked. I suggest we use caution. (voices) PetaQ! You will drown in your own blood.
TUVOK: Keep moving.
(Seven turns to attack him, and he stuns her.)

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Seven.
SEVEN: Captain, why am I here?
JANEWAY: You've been unconscious for nearly two hours. We believe you're experiencing a neurological disorder.
SEVEN: Voices, I hear voices. They are agitated, chaotic. Too many voices. 
(We are treated to shots of screaming people prior to assimilation.)  
SEVEN: Too many voices.
EMH: The cortical inhibitor is destabilising. I'm increasing the neurotransmitter levels. It's working. Do you still hear the voices?
SEVEN: They are fading. They are gone.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's see what we can do to keep them from coming back. What's the last thing you remember?
SEVEN: I was in Engineering, assisting Lieutenant Torres.
TUVOK: You have no recollection of a confrontation with B'Elanna?
SEVEN: Confrontation?
EMH: I'm not sure why, but you seem to be manifesting personalities other than your own.
JANEWAY: Naomi Wildman claims the two of you played together for nearly an hour this afternoon.
TUVOK: You also attacked Lieutenant Torres. She told us you called yourself Son of K'vok and that you initiated a Klingon mating ritual.
SEVEN: I have no memory of those events.
EMH: Come look at this.
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: This is your neural pattern. The memory engrams and synaptic pathways that define you as an individual. Unfortunately, you're not alone. Thirteen new neural patterns have emerged in your cerebral cortex. Klingon, Vulcan, Terrelian, Human and several others I can't identify.
SEVEN: How?
EMH: They're coming from within you. During your time with the Borg, the Collective assimilated hundreds of different species. All of those neural patterns were integrated into the Hive Mind.
SEVEN: Of course.
EMH: That means they're in your mind too, stored within your cortical implants. Dormant until now.
JANEWAY: From what we can tell, the various neural patterns are surfacing randomly.
EMH: In essence, you've developed the Borg equivalent of Multiple Personality Disorder.
SEVEN: Can you correct the malfunction?
EMH: The cortical inhibitor is suppressing the effect, but it's only a temporary measure.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres detected a Borg interlink frequency. It could be causing my cortical implants to malfunction.
TUVOK: The signal appears to be emanating from the Borg debris field we discovered this morning.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should jump to warp, try to get out of range.
SEVEN: The signal permeates subspace. We cannot avoid it.
EMH: Our only hope is to terminate the signal at its point of origin.
JANEWAY: Set a course for the debris field. When we arrive we may need your help. Feel up to it?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep a close eye on her, Doctor, in case she has any more unexpected visitors.

[Corridor]

(So the mobile emitter gets some use.)
EMH: Has any drone ever experienced symptoms like these before?
SEVEN: The Collective does not tolerate imperfection. Any drone with a malfunction as serious as mine would be destroyed immediately.
EMH: Lucky for you, this crew is a little more tolerant.
NEELIX: Oh, there you are. Lieutenant Torres tells me you're under the weather.
SEVEN: Correct.
NEELIX: Well, is there anything your Morale officer can do to help? Assignments you need me to finish while you recuperate?
SEVEN: No.
NEELIX: I have some wonderful medicinal teas. Maybe I could prepare one for you?
EMH: Talaxian homeopathy. I don't think we're quite that desperate yet.
NEELIX: How about if I make one of your favourite nutritional supplements?
SEVEN: Your concern has been noted. The Doctor will inform you when I am functional again.
NEELIX: Right. Sorry. Oh! Ah, I almost forgot. It's from Naomi Wildman. It's a drawing of Voyager, or maybe it's an asteroid belt. I'm not sure. Naomi thought it might make you feel better.
SEVEN: Tell her thank you.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The Doctor checks Systems Usage log 709.)
EMH: I suspected as much. There were several interruptions in your regeneration cycle. Eighteen minutes, five minutes, one hour.
SEVEN: I don't recall them.
EMH: Let's examine your neural function logs. Low serotonin levels during regeneration, that's normal. But look at these spikes in the pre-frontal synapses. They appear only seconds before you left the alcove. You were sleepwalking.
SEVEN: I don't remember entering this data file.
EMH: Looks like we found the identity of the Midnight Snacker. I'm sure Mister Neelix will be relieved.
SEVEN [OC]: Personal log, Ensign Stone, Stardate 52188.7. I just completed my first week of active duty. It was a nightmare. After four years at the Academy I thought I was ready for anything, but Captain Blackwood runs a tight ship, and he seems to take special pleasure in tormenting new recruits. The First Officer tells me not to take it personally, but it's hard to be objective when
SEVEN: Blackwood. Captain of the Federation Starship Tombaugh. The Borg assimilated that vessel thirteen years ago.
EMH: The individual who made this recording must have been a member of the crew.
SEVEN: One of my victims.
EMH: Here's another log entry. This one encoded for transmission.
SEVEN [OC]: Hi. Guess who? I know I promised to write you every day but that's simply not enough. How about once in the morning when I resuscitate and once at night before I go into torpor, and I'll think about you non-stop in between. Wait, I've got a better idea. Why don't you leave your circle and visit the colony? You'd love it here, so
EMH: Anything familiar?
SEVEN: I helped to assimilate thousands of individuals. I do not remember each of their names.
EMH: Seven, you were a Borg drone who's now becoming an individual. That's practically unheard of. There's bound to be rough spots along the way. We just have to get past them.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Seven of Nine. We're approaching the debris field.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Survivors?
TUVOK: None.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of Borg vessels?
PARIS: No, sir. We're the first ones here.
KIM: I'm picking up the source of the interlink frequency. Bearing oh two seven mark three.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
(A long thin thing with green components.)
SEVEN: It's a Borg vinculum.
CHAKOTAY: Vinculum?
SEVEN: The processing device at the core of every Borg vessel. It interconnects the minds of all the drones. It purges individual thoughts and disseminates information relevant to the Collective.
JANEWAY: It brings order to chaos.
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: Looks like this one has established a link to your cortical implant.
SEVEN: I believe it has identified me as an errant drone. It is attempting to reintegrate me into the Collective. The Vinculum is malfunctioning. It is sending me erratic commands.
TUVOK: Bringing chaos to order.
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Can you sever the link?
SEVEN: Not without risking permanent damage to my own systems. The Vinculum must be taken offline. Permission to beam it aboard for analysis. I have worked with this technology before. I may be able to disable it.
JANEWAY: We're talking about the heart of a Borg cube. I'd rather not take it inside my ship. Can you disable it remotely?
SEVEN: Yes, but I would need several days. The Borg may return by then. I recommend we take the Vinculum and leave this region immediately.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, prepare to beam it to Engineering. Erect a level ten forcefield and maintain constant surveillance. The moment it poses a threat, send it back into space. Tom, as soon as it's aboard, get us out of here. Warp nine.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I understand what you're going through, and I want to help you in every way I can, but the safety of this crew is my first responsibility. We haven't had the best of luck with the Borg.
SEVEN: Nor have I.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Let's keep an eye on those antigrav struts. Boylen, lock out all primary command consoles and reroute transporter controls to main Engineering.
BOYLEN: Yes, Lieutenant.
(The Vinculum is hanging in mid-air.)
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: The voices. I hear them.
EMH: It's your proximity to the Vinculum. The link is stronger here. I'm adjusting your neurotransmitter levels. You'd better get started.
SEVEN: Don't worry, Lieutenant. The Son of K'vok will not be joining us.
TORRES: Glad to hear it. Does this qualify as our second date?
EMH: Just think of me as your chaperone.
TORRES: So, where's the off switch?
SEVEN: The Vinculum is equipped with many safeguards. I will need to access its transneural matrix and disable it directly.
TORRES: I'm reading a power surge.
SEVEN: It's a normal response to my intrusion. Don't be alarmed. Curious. I'm detecting an organism within the Vinculum. It appears to be a viral agent.
EMH: Let's see it. It's a synthetic pathogen. The virus was originally a biological agent but it's mutated. It's attacking the Vinculum's programmes as it would living cells.
TORRES: An organism that attacks technology?
SEVEN: The Cube was infected three days ago, shortly after assimilating an alien shuttlecraft. Species 6339. They were the last ones to come in contact with the cube.
EMH: Looks like we found our Typhoid Mary.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Species 6339, Humanoid. Warp-capable. Origin, grid one two four, octant twenty two theta. They first encountered the Borg approximately four years ago. Since that time, eleven billion individuals have been assimilated. Three days ago, the Collective detected one of their last surviving shuttlecraft. A Cube was sent to intercept it.
EMH: We believe the virus was carried within their bodies. Once they were assimilated, it spread to the Vinculum.
SEVEN: The drones aboard no doubt experienced symptoms similar to my own. It is no surprise they destroyed themselves.
JANEWAY: I'd like to find species 6339. They may be able to help us treat you. Begin long range Astrometric scans. See if they have any more vessels in this region.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain. I've already begun a spatial diagn. (voices) My, my, my, look at the size of that thing. This viewscreen. It's got to be one of the biggest I've ever seen. I'll give you twenty bars of latinum for it.
EMH: I think the inhibitor's gone offline. Would you come here, please?
SEVEN: Be quiet. Can't you see I'm in the middle of a deal? Name your price, Captain?
JANEWAY: Janeway. And you are?
SEVEN: Daimon Torrot.
JANEWAY: You're Ferengi.
SEVEN: Of course I'm Ferengi. Is that some kind of insult about the size of my ears?
JANEWAY: No, not at all. I'd be happy to negotiate with you, but first we have to get you to Sickbay.
SEVEN: Sickbay? What for?
JANEWAY: Because you're ill.
SEVEN: I've never felt better.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: I'm afraid you've contracted a nasty strain of the Ankaran flu. We've been treating you several days. Remember?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Short term memory loss. It's one of the symptoms. Don't worry, it isn't life threatening, but we'll need to treat you. In Sickbay.
SEVEN: What is this treatment going to cost me?
EMH: It's free of charge.
SEVEN: Free?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: You know, I have been having a nagging pain in my lower left lobe, and while you're at it why don't you run a complete tricardial diagnostic. The Ferengi Health Commission's trying to revoke my trading license.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: Impressive vessel, Captain. Galaxy class?
JANEWAY: Intrepid.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: Ah. Ah, and here we are in the much talked-about Sickbay. Not exactly state of the medical art now, is it?
EMH: What do you mean?
SEVEN: You're low on biobeds, terrible lighting, obsolete instruments. Lucky for you, I know a medical supplier that can spruce this place up in a nanosecond, and I'll even drop my commission to a mere thirty percent?
EMH: How generous of you. Computer, activate forcefield.
(Seven is trapped in the surgical bay.)
SEVEN: Forcefield? You said I wasn't contagious.
EMH: It's for your own safety. I've set the cortical inhibitor to maximum but it is no longer suppressing the effects. These personalities are going to keep surfacing.
SEVEN: I've been kidnapped!
JANEWAY: Even more reason to shut down the Vinculum as soon as we can.
EMH: Even if we do break the link, it may be too late. Seven's own neural pattern is destabilising. It could be lost.
SEVEN: Please help me. I'm looking for my son Gregory Bergan, Lieutenant Bergan. Have you seen him?
JANEWAY: No, I'm afraid not.
SEVEN: From the starship Melbourne.
JANEWAY: Melbourne?
SEVEN: I was supposed to meet him at Wolf 359, but Starfleet sent out a warning that the Borg were attacking that sector. It was too late for us to turn back. We were caught in a terrible battle. My ship was badly damaged. We had to leave on escape pods. I never found out what happened to Gregory. Please, I haven't heard from him in over three days. Could you check with Starfleet Headquarters?
JANEWAY: I'll see what I can do.
SEVEN: Thank you, Captain. If you do speak with him, could you tell him that his mother is all right and if he could pos... Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes. The Vinculum?
JANEWAY: We're preparing to shut it down right away. I'll give the order as soon as Torres is ready.
SEVEN: How long was I absent?
JANEWAY: About twenty minutes.
SEVEN: How many?
JANEWAY: Two. One of whom wanted to acquire half the items on the ship. Daimon Torrot, I believe.
SEVEN: Species 180, Ferengi.
JANEWAY: Yes. The other was a woman whose son was lost in a Borg attack. You'll get through this, Seven.
SEVEN: I do not share your optimism.
(The forcefield is lowered.)
SEVEN: When you took me from the Borg and began to turn me into an individual, I found the silence of my own mind difficult to bear. I missed the voices of the Collective. But now that I am an individual, those same voices frighten me. Captain, I don't know if I can tolerate this condition much longer. My courage is insufficient.
JANEWAY: Your job is to keep trying to hold on even when you think you can't. Leave the rest to me and the crew.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Meet anyone interesting?
JANEWAY: Just finished swapping jokes with a Bolian manicurist. Before that, I was debating the finer points of temporal physics with a Krenim scientist. Twelve new personalities have surfaced in the past hour alone. Seven's having a rough time of it. The Doctor had to sedate her.
CHAKOTAY: How's the Captain holding up?
JANEWAY: I've been better, Chakotay. In fact, I'm starting to wonder if my First Officer was right all along.
CHAKOTAY: About what?
JANEWAY: You always said that bringing Seven into the fold might be impossible.
CHAKOTAY: You can take the Borg out of the Collective, but. I don't believe that. Not anymore. I didn't think she'd last a day, much less a year. I'd say you've proven me wrong.
TORRES [OC]: Torres to Bridge. We're ready to begin disabling the Vinculum.
JANEWAY: Proceed.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Target the transneural matrix. Stand by to initiate the dampening field on my mark. Three, two, one, mark. Its power output is dropping.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Doctor to bridge. It seems to be working. Her neural pattern is stabilising.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Power output is down to seventy seven percent. Seventy one percent. Wait a second. It's increasing.
TUVOK: I'm refocusing the dampening field.
TORRES: It's still increasing.
TUVOK: The Vinculum is rerouting its internal circuitry. It's adapting.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Engineering! Her synaptic pathways are destabilising. Abort the procedure!
SEVEN: Help me!
EMH: Abort!

[Engineering]

TUVOK: Stand by, Doctor. Power output at ninety eight percent. (Bang!) The forcefield is collapsing.
TORRES: Transfer emergency power.
TUVOK: It won't work, Lieutenant. We must abort. Tuvok to bridge.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: The procedure was unsuccessful. The Vinculum has returned to full power.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Doctor, report.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Seven's neural pattern has disappeared, Captain. It appears that the other patterns have taken over completely. We've lost her.

Captain's log, supplemental. Long range sensors have detected a vessel belonging to species 6339. We've set a course to intercept them in the hopes they can help us restore Seven of Nine.

[Ready room]

EMH: I've managed to stabilise her primary cortical functions but the woman in Sickbay is not Seven of Nine. Not any more. New personalities are emerging every few seconds now. She can't finish a sentence before the next one rears its head. It's creating an incredible strain on her cerebral cortex. If we don't deactivate the Vinculum soon, we may never get her back.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres is taking measures to prevent the Vinculum from adapting, but there's no guarantee she'll succeed.
EMH: Captain, I've exhausted every viable treatment in my database.
TUVOK: Then logic dictates we go beyond medical science. I will attempt to mind meld with Seven of Nine.
EMH: A mind meld? You consider that a viable treatment?
TUVOK: Seven's neural pattern, her sense of self, is immersed in chaos. I will attempt to isolate her true self and guide it to the surface.
JANEWAY: It's dangerous enough to meld with one person, let alone hundreds of different personalities.
EMH: It's too risky.
TUVOK: The risk is mine to take.
JANEWAY: I'm aware of that, but is this our only option?
TUVOK: I believe it is, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long would you need to prepare?
EMH: Captain, you can't actually be considering this Vulcan mumbo jumbo.
TUVOK: I will require two hours of meditation.
JANEWAY: Begin immediately. Report to Sickbay when you're ready.
(Tuvok leaves.)
JANEWAY: You said it yourself. We've exhausted every medical treatment.
EMH: I just hope I don't find myself with a second patient.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It's them. Species 6339.
KIM: Their vessel is well-armed, Captain. I'm picking up twenty two phaser cannons on the aft section alone.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: They're responding.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We recently found a piece of Borg technology. It's been infected with a viral agent we believe was transmitted by your
VEN [on viewscreen]: The Vinculum, you have it?
JANEWAY: Yes.
VEN [on viewscreen]: You've made a terrible mistake, Captain.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: A weapon?
VEN: Yes. Since the Borg decimated our world, we've been looking for ways to retaliate.
JANEWAY: So you created a virus to infect their technology.
VEN: Thirteen of my people were injected with the virus. They allowed themselves to be assimilated so that the virus would spread to this Vinculum. Once another Borg ship had retrieved it they would be infected as well. Then another Cube, and another. We had the opportunity to infect dozens, even hundreds of Borg vessels until you interfered. Why?
JANEWAY: Your virus has had one unexpected casualty. A member of my crew.
VEN: It wasn't designed to infect other species.
JANEWAY: She's Borg.  
CHAKOTAY: We liberated her from the Collective over a year ago. She's an individual now.
JANEWAY: We were hoping you could help us treat her.
VEN: We designed that virus to destroy Borg, Captain. We never considered a treatment. I'm afraid your drone won't survive. But we must return the Vinculum to the debris field immediately. If the Borg arrive first, we'll have lost our chance, and those thirteen people will have died in vain.
JANEWAY: All right. We'll return it to you, but first we need to try to save our crew member. We think we have a way to counteract the Vinculum's effects. B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm going to try to remodulate our dampening field to compensate
VEN: We don't have time for this. The Vinculum, Captain.
JANEWAY: I can't give it to you. Not yet.
VEN: You scanned our vessel, you're aware of our firepower.
JANEWAY: You could undoubtedly do significant damage to Voyager, and to the Vinculum. Is that what you want?
VEN: The Vinculum survived the destruction of one ship. What makes you so sure it won't survive another?

[Sickbay]

(Seven is tied down on the biobed. The EMH is using a dermal regenerator on her hand.)
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: Seven. A necessary precaution. A few of your guests have been violent.
SEVEN: The Vinculum.
EMH: It keeps adapting. We haven't been able to shut it down. Your own neural pattern was nearly destroyed in the process. I wasn't sure I'd find you again.
SEVEN: I am damaged.
EMH: One of your personas didn't appreciate the restraints. She seemed intent on forcing her way to freedom.
SEVEN: I apologise.
EMH: It was hardly your fault. You're ill.
SEVEN: Irrelevant. I am Borg. I should be able to adapt.
EMH: Surprise. You aren't invincible. I suppose that's something we'll have to tackle in our next social lesson. Voices?
SEVEN: They're getting louder.
EMH: It won't be long before I lose you again. It's my duty as your physician to inform you of an alternative treatment.
SEVEN: What treatment?
EMH: Commander Tuvok has proposed a mind meld to help stabilise your neural pattern. I had a similar reaction. If you don't approve.
SEVEN: What is the probability of success?
EMH: I don't know. A mind meld is hardly a standard medical practice.
SEVEN: Are there any risks to Tuvok?
EMH: He could suffer brain damage, but he's confident he'll be able to break the meld before that happens.
SEVEN: Even if we do shut down the Vinculum, it may not be enough. If Tuvok can do anything to help me.
EMH: I understand.
SEVEN: Doctor, you have shown a great deal of patience.
EMH: Not at all.  
SEVEN: Inform the crew that I am also grateful for their efforts.
EMH: You'll be able to tell them yourself, afterwards. Seven?
SEVEN: Voices!
EMH: Concentrate! Focus on the sound of my voice!
SEVEN: Get them out, please! I can't, I can't! No!
(The EMH sedates her. Tuvok completes his meditative preparations.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: The alien vessel is coming about.
KIM: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields.

[Sickbay]

EMH: As if the meld weren't dangerous enough, the aliens are trying to take the Vinculum by force. Commander Chakotay is at Tactical. The Captain wants you here with Seven. This will allow me to monitor your neural activity for the duration of the meld. At the first sign of trouble.
TUVOK: You will do nothing.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
TUVOK: There will undoubtedly be many signs of trouble. You must have faith in my ability to endure them.
EMH: I'll try. I just hope my faith doesn't leave the two of you brain damaged.
TUVOK: Your concerns have been noted, Doctor.
EMH: With all of these new personalities floating around, it's a shame we can't find one for you.
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate forcefield.
SEVEN: Why am I tied to this bed? Please let me go. PetaQ! I'll rip out your throat, coward! Name your price. Ten bars of latinum? Twenty? This isn't medicine, it's torture! I'll sue for malpractice. I fail to see the logic in this meld, Commander.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind.
SEVEN: You are but one mind, confronting thousands.
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.
SEVEN: You will not succeed.
TUVOK: Your mind to my mind.
SEVEN: Let me go. The Borg are assimilating the ship! We've got to evacuate.
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.
SEVEN: Listen to me! They're trying to assimilate the ship.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind.
SEVEN: Let me go!
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.
SEVEN: Mommy. Mommy.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind.
SEVEN: Mommy.
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.

[Meld]

(Tuvok is standing in a regeneration alcove.)
TUVOK: Seven? Seven! Seven.
(He walks a gauntlet of panicked people.)
TUVOK: Seven. Seven? Seven? Seven?
(He sees her surrounded by people.)

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: I'm lost. Somebody help me. Please, I don't like it here. I want to go home. I can't find my

[Meld]

GIRL: Mommy. Please, help me. Please, I don't want to stay here, I want to go home. I don't like it here. Please, help me. I want to go home. These people are scary. Please don't go.  Please, why are you leaving me here? Please! I don't like it here!

[Sickbay]

EMH: Sickbay to Engineering.

[Engineering]

EMH [OC]: How long until the Vinculum's offline?
TORRES: Two, maybe three minutes. Provided Voyager can stay in one piece for that long.

[Bridge]

KIM: Shields down to sixty percent.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Target their weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: Targeting systems are malfunctioning.
PARIS: We're losing power to main thrusters.
KIM: Shields to thirty five percent.
JANEWAY: Reroute all available power to shields. Chakotay, initiate manual targeting.
TORRES [OC]: Torres to bridge.

[Engineering]

TORRES: The Vinculum's stopped adapting. I think the new dampening field is working. We should have it disabled in the next sixty seconds.

[Sickbay]

COMPUTER: Warning. Neurochemical synapses are destabilising.
EMH: Computer, increase power to the cortical inhibitors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Power transport systems are offline.
EMH: Tuvok, if you can hear me, we have to terminate the meld. Tuvok. Tuvok!

[Meld]

(Tuvok is fighting with a Klingon. He throws in into a void. Seven is being held by a Cardassian.)
SEVEN: Commander. Commander!
TUVOK: Seven?
SEVEN: Commander.
TUVOK: Seven!

[Engineering]

TORRES: Power output's down to twenty nine percent. Twenty two. Seventeen. Bridge, we just lost the field emitters.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We took a direct hit to the power grid. Stand by. We're switching to emergency backup.

[Meld]

TUVOK: Seven.
(Tuvok and Seven are on opposite sides of the void.)

[Engineering]

TORRES: Bridge, the Vinculum's powering up again.
JANEWAY [OC]: The field emitters are back online. Pull the plug.
TORRES: It's working. Power output down to nineteen percent. Thirteen percent.

[Meld]

TUVOK: Seven. Seven.
SEVEN: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Seven.

[Engineering]

TORRES: It's done, Captain. The Vinculum's offline. (In the meld, the other people and the void vanish. Tuvok reaches Seven.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes.

[Bridge]

EMH [OC]: We have her back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Hail the lead vessel. Tell them we're surrendering the Vinculum.
KIM: No response.
JANEWAY: Lock onto the damn thing. Beam it into space.
CHAKOTAY: Transport complete. They're withdrawing.
JANEWAY: Take us out of here, Tom. Warp nine.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

Captain's log, stardate 52356.2. After nearly a week of regeneration Seven of Nine has finally recovered from her ordeal.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: Neuroprocessor, cortical receptors, all stable. She's fit to return to duty.
JANEWAY: What about her other personalities? Any sign of them?.
EMH: Those neural patterns have returned to their dormant state.
SEVEN: The voices will not return?
EMH: I suppose that depends on your perspective. You may not hear them, but I suspect they'll always be with you.
SEVEN: The members of this crew put themselves at risk to help me. I am unsure how to reciprocate.
JANEWAY: Let's start with something small, like a recalibration of the EPS manifolds. B'Elanna's expecting you in Engineering.
SEVEN: I will join her shortly. There is a crew member I must see first.

[Corridor]

(Seven hands a pile of PADDs over to Naomi.)
SEVEN: These are star charts for the next three systems Voyager will pass through. Familiarise yourself with them.
NAOMI: Understood.
SEVEN: Sociological data regarding one hundred and seventy three Delta quadrant species. Study it.
NAOMI: I will.
SEVEN: As Bridge Assistant, you will find this information relevant.
NAOMI: Consider it assimilated.
SEVEN: There is one more assignment. I require your assistance.
NAOMI: Me?
SEVEN: I wish to participate in recreational activities.
NAOMI: Great. 

[Turbolift]

SEVEN: Kadis-kot. Instruct me how to play.
NAOMI: I will comply.


S5 E8
Nothing Human
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 2 December 1998

[Holodeck]
(The Doctor is showing off the photographs he has taken with his holo-imager. His audience is less than enthralled.)
EMH: And, since I was the only crewmember who could survive the corrosive atmosphere, it was up to me to retrieve the data module and save the day. Ah, here I am, mission accomplished. Then of course there was the perilous mission to Lav'oti V. You remember that one, don't you Mister Paris?
PARIS: How could I forget.
EMH: Here you are after your unfortunate slip into the fetid mud pits of Palomar.
(Torres laughs.)
PARIS: Hey, I was pushed.
EMH: Of course you were.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor. We've all enjoyed your holo-images enormously.
EMH: Oh, but I haven't finished yet.
TORRES: There's more?
EMH: The best is yet to come, Lieutenant. I've created a fascinating twelve part holographic essay which I call 'Under the Skin'. Humanoid anatomy as art. Let's begin with this stunning magnification of the Vulcan reproductive gland. Note the composition, the subtle variations in colour.

[Bridge]

KIM: Twenty one hundred hours, Commander. All systems reporting normal.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: Like I said, it's twenty one hundred hours.
CHAKOTAY: I heard you the first time, Harry.
KIM: They've been in there over an hour.
CHAKOTAY: I'm aware of that.
KIM: Didn't the Captain ask you to rescue them after thirty minutes?
CHAKOTAY: Harry, you and I were lucky enough to enjoy the Doctor's scintillating exhibition for two full hours. Would it really be fair of us to deny our friends the same unforgettable experience?
KIM: Of course not, sir.

[Holodeck]

(Janeway hands off her large coffee mug to the Doctor as she leaves stony-faced.)
EMH: Thank you. thank you for coming. We'll do it again soon. We've still got thousands of light years to while away. This could be a weekly event.

[Corridor]

TORRES: What happened to going to yellow alert after half an hour?
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay appears to have disobeyed a direct order.
JANEWAY: Definitely grounds for court martial.

[Mess hall]

TORRES: Hey, Neelix.
NEELIX: Coffee?
PARIS: Oh, I could use a whole pot.
NEELIX: Let me guess. The Doctor's photographic essay?
PARIS: Ha! One mind-numbing image after the next.
TORRES: Oh, I don't know. I thought some of those pictures were pretty funny.
NEELIX: You mean like the one where Tom slipped into a mud pit?
TORRES: You're famous.
NEELIX: Then, of course, there's the one depicting a certain Chief Engineer with her foot stuck in a plasma injector.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Really? I seem to have missed that one.
NEELIX: The Doctor must have taken it out of the exhibition.
PARIS: Oh, I can't wait to get my hands on it. Maybe I can distribute it to everyone's personal database.
TORRES: Try it, and I'll kill you. Right after I finish deleting the Doctor's programme.
(The ship starts shaking.)
PARIS: What'd you put in this coffee, Neelix?

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm reading a massive energy wave nine hundred thousand kilometres off the starboard bow, heading right for us.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Shields up. Evasive manoeuvres.
KIM: The wave just changed course. It seems to be tracking us!
JANEWAY: Go to warp eight!
CHAKOTAY: Too late! Engines are down.
JANEWAY: Everybody hang on!
(The wave overtakes them, then leaves them in peace.)
JANEWAY: All stop.
TUVOK: Shields are holding. Minor damage to the hull plating on deck fifteen.
CHAKOTAY: No injuries.
JANEWAY: Stand down red alert.
KIM: Captain, when the wave hit our communications array received a download.
CHAKOTAY: What sort of download?
KIM: I'm not sure. Lots of information. I can't decipher it, but there's an audio component.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
(Short screeches.)
CHAKOTAY: Harry, try all the standard decryption algorithms.
JANEWAY: It's strange. The wave followed us but it didn't cause any damage. Instead, we get a download to our database. I'd say it's a pretty good bet somebody's trying to tell us something.
PARIS: The wave left a residual ion trail. We might be able to locate its point of origin.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
(Later, they arrive at a  spaceship.)
JANEWAY: Looks like it's taken quite a beating.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
KIM: One. Non-humanoid. It's very faint. Probably injured.
JANEWAY: Beam it to Sickbay.
TUVOK: Are you sure that's wise, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm betting that message we received was some sort of distress call. And if we're going to help, I'd rather do it on Voyager.

[Sickbay]

(A long, four-armed crustacean with big eyes is lying on the surgical bay biobed.)
EMH: The physiology is so unusual the tricorder can't make heads or tails of it. The creature's obviously injured, but I haven't a clue how to treat it or even diagnose it.
(Torres enters.)
TORRES: My scans came up with something interesting, Captain. The interfaces on the alien's vessel can only be activated chemically. I'm guessing that this lifeform somehow interfaces directly with the ship's systems using biochemical secretions to give commands.
JANEWAY: That would explain how it can fly a ship.
TORRES: I'm hoping this can also help us figure out
(The creature leaps through the bay's forcefield and onto Torres. Janeway grabs the security guard's phaser.)
EMH: No! You'll hurt B'Elanna!
TORRES: Get it off of me!
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kim. Beam the alien lifeform

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Back to it's vessel. Now!
KIM: I'm having trouble getting a lock.

[Sickbay]

EMH: It's piercing her neck!
(Later, Torres is on the biobed, unconscious, with the creature fastened on top of her.)
EMH: Her heart and lungs are seriously compromised, and her kidneys are failing. The creature's also secreting some kind of paralysing agent into her bloodstream.
PARIS: How do we get it off her?
EMH: I can't remove it surgically, not without doing irreparable harm to B'Elanna's organs.
JANEWAY: Can we get a lock on the creature, transport it off?
EMH: Not unless we want to beam B'Elanna's cardiopulmonary system along with it.
PARIS: We have to do something.
EMH: No one is disputing that, Mister Paris. The question is what? If I'm to have any hope of devising a treatment I'll need to brush up on my exobiology.
PARIS: What do you mean, brush up? Don't you have all this information in your database?

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I may be a walking medical encyclopaedia, but even I don't know everything. My matrix simply isn't large enough.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can do better than giving you a crash course in exobiology. Maybe we can provide you with a consultant.
EMH: I'd be delighted, but how?
JANEWAY: By isolating the computer's exobiology data files and merging them into a an interactive matrix.
PARIS: A hologram.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
EMH: That may not be as simple as it sounds. It would need to be nearly as sophisticated as I am. Tactile interfaces, personality subroutines.
PARIS: Harry could do it.
JANEWAY: Search the database for the leading exobiologist. If you want to add a personality, it may as well be based on a real person. I'll have Harry meet you in holodeck two.
EMH: Stay with her and monitor her vital signs. Call me if there's any change.

[Corridor]

KIM: I still have my doubts about this, Doc. It's one thing to create a simple hologram, but you're trying to merge an extensive database with an interactive matrix.
EMH: Don't be a pessimist, Mister Kim. Together we'll create a masterpiece of holographic art.
KIM: A subject for your next slide show?
EMH: Perhaps.
KIM: Can't wait.

[Holodeck]

KIM: What's the name of that exobiologist you chose?
EMH: Crell Moset.
KIM: Here's the file.
EMH: Let's start with the parameters for physical appearance.
KIM: Computer, display a holographic simulation of Crell Moset.
(Moset appears.)
KIM: Have you mentioned to anyone else that this guy's a Cardassian?
EMH: What difference does it make?
KIM: Maybe you haven't heard. They're not the friendliest folks in the galaxy.
EMH: I don't care if he's the nastiest man who ever lived, as long as he can help us save B'Elanna.
KIM: Good point. Computer, transfer all reference medical files to the simulation.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
KIM: Now install personality subroutines and voice approximation.
COMPUTER: Installation complete.
EMH: Doctor Moset, I'd like to consult with you about an alien lifeform.
(The hologram speaks with an indistinct voice.)
MOSET: I am Crell Moset, Chief Exobiology specialist Cardassia Prime certified to perform all surgical procedures.
EMH: This is going well. What's wrong?
KIM: Some sort of overload in the interactive matrix.
EMH: Can you clear it up?
KIM: I'm trying. Computer, install a recursive algorithm.
COMPUTER: Algorithm installed.
KIM: Try it again.
EMH: Doctor Moset?
MOSET: My friends call me Crell.
EMH: It's a pleasure to meet you, Crell.
MOSET: And you, good man. What's your name?
EMH: Actually, I'm in-between names at the moment. I'm an Emergency Medical Hologram.
MOSET: Interesting.
KIM: But his friends call him Doc.
MOSET: Ah-ha. May I presume?
EMH: Certainly.
MOSET: So, Doc, how can an old surgeon like me help a technological marvel such as yourself?
EMH: Oh, well, I've got a patient with a rather unusual problem. She's become fused with a non-humanoid lifeform I know nothing about.
MOSET: Non-humanoid exobiology happens to be one of my specialties.
EMH: That's exactly why we've created your programme.
MOSET: Programme?
EMH: You're a hologram as well.
MOSET: Interesting. I'd like to see the patient right away.
EMH: Mister Kim, would you do the honours please.
KIM: No problem. Listen, if he destabilises again, take him offline and call me.
EMH: Understood.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Lieutenant. may I present Crell Moset?
MOSET: It's a pleasure.
PARIS: She's been drifting in and out of consciousness.
EMH: Don't be rude, Lieutenant.
PARIS: To him? No offence, Doc, but he's just a
EMH: A brilliant scientist who's here to help us. This way, Crell.
MOSET: Hmm. I can see why you're having difficulty.
EMH: It's physiology doesn't match any of the standard templates in our database.
MOSET: My guess would be a cytoplasmic lifeform.
EMH: I agree. And from what I can tell it has co-opted her vital systems.
MOSET: She's Klingon. No, the cranial ridges are less pronounced. Klingon-human hybrid.
EMH: Exactly. Let's hope your instincts about the creature are equally insightful.
MOSET: I'm afraid this one is going to require more than a visual assessment. You have an isomolecular scanner?
EMH: No, just a standard issue Starfleet tricorder.
MOSET: No wonder you're having problems making an accurate diagnosis.

[Doctor's office]

MOSET: I suggested an upgrade to the Starfleet people at a joint medical conference, but they assumed I was just an arrogant Cardassian trying to prove his superiority. Or maybe they thought I was a spy.
EMH: I hope you weren't too offended. 

[Sickbay]

MOSET: It's an unfortunate reality. Sometimes even enlightened races can't find common ground. I may be able to recalibrate this thing. There, that should help.
EMH: Amazing.
MOSET: Well, someone from Starfleet appreciates me.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: I've instructed the computer to assign symbols to all the tones received in the transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like there were over ten thousand separate sounds used in this section of the message.
JANEWAY: It's going to be a tough code to crack.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can get a little help from the alien vessel's databanks.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Janeway to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Yes.
JANEWAY: Any chance of downloading the alien's databanks?

[Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: We're looking for anything that might help us understand their language. We don't know how much time B'Elanna has left.
SEVEN: We must move quickly. The vessel is on the verge of a complete systems failure.
(To the Bajoran Ensign standing next to her.)
SEVEN: Prepare to download the data.
TABOR: I heard the Captain.
SEVEN: Is there a problem?
TABOR: No. No problem.
SEVEN: You seem uncomfortable taking orders from me.
TABOR: It's just that I'm used to taking orders from B'Elanna, that's all. And to tell you the truth, she doesn't
SEVEN: Doesn't like me. Yes, I am aware of that. However, the Captain left me in charge during Lieutenant Torres' absence. Her feelings about me are irrelevant. Activate the interface transceiver. Begin the download.
TABOR: I'm picking up a fluctuation in the alien ship's power source.
SEVEN: It's disrupting the interface transceiver. Re-initialise.
TABOR: I'm working on it. It's systems are overloading.
SEVEN: Red alert.

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: Engineering to bridge. The alien vessel is destabilising. It's destruction is imminent.
JANEWAY: Can you download the information first?

[Engineering]

SEVEN: We're trying.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, it's going to explode.
JANEWAY: Ensign, back us off.
(The alien ship goes KaBOOM!)

[Sickbay]

MOSET: What do we know so far?
EMH: The lifeform has taken control of her body at the autonomic level, drawing proteins from her tissues, white blood cells from her arteries.
MOSET: Which can be interpreted in several ways.
EMH: A form of attack?
MOSET: I find it odd that a species would evolve an attack mechanism that would leave it so vulnerable. Why not do it's damage and retreat?
EMH: A parasite, perhaps?
MOSET: Yes, I think so, but not any ordinary variety. It's unlikely it could sustain itself like this over the long term.
EMH: Its own systems are damaged. It's doing this as a stopgap measure, to keep itself alive.
MOSET: So the patient's heart, lungs, kidneys, they're all augmenting the alien's damaged system.
EMH: It's using B'Elanna as a life preserver.
MOSET: But if it needs her to survive, it's not about to let go without a fight.
EMH: I'd like to think that's a fight you and I can win.
MOSET: We do work well together. I just wish we had access to my laboratory. It has all the instrumentation we would need. Well, we'll just have to improvise.
EMH: Not necessarily. We may be able to create a reasonable facsimile of your laboratory in our holodeck.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Providing of course, you can give an accurate description.
MOSET: Oh, down to the smallest detail. It's more of a home to me than my home. 

[Sickbay]

TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: Hey, there.
TORRES: I can't move.
PARIS: I know, but don't worry. We'll get this thing off you. Just think, I could force you to listen to rock and roll all day and you wouldn't be able to do a thing about it.
TORRES: Who's that?
PARIS: Relax. He's just a hologram. A specialist in exobiology. The Doc thinks he might be able to help you.
TORRES: Can't he find somebody else?
PARIS: Apparently, this guy's the best. Besides, he's just a walking database.
TORRES: Hologram or not, he's Cardassian. As far as I'm concerned, they're all cold-blooded killers.
PARIS: I understand how you feel. Unfortunately, that cold-blooded killer may be the only one who can save your life.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

EMH: Impressive. Is this where you did your work on the Fostossa virus?
MOSET: No. Actually, I was on Bajor at the time, during the Occupation. A sad chapter in Cardassian history. We had no business being there, but try telling that to the politicians. When I think of the resources that were squandered, the lives that were lost.
EMH: But from what I understand, you saved thousands of lives.
MOSET: In retrospect, I don't know how. The military had everything they needed but the civilian hospitals? No staff, the crudest equipment.
EMH: Don't tell me. You were forced to improvise.
MOSET: Yes!
EMH: I know what that's like.
MOSET: I didn't have the resources to try traditional methods, so I experimented with procedures that, that never would have occurred to me under ordinary circumstances. The discovery of the cure was almost accidental, really.
EMH: You're being modest, Crell.
MOSET: No.
EMH: You made medical history. You won the Legate's Crest of Valour.
MOSET: Awards aren't important, Doc. It's the work that matters.
EMH: Of course. Still, the recognition of your peers, your government. It must be very satisfying.
MOSET: I'm sure you've made your share of breakthroughs.
EMH: Naturally. Unfortunately, no one from Starfleet ever hears about them. I toil in obscurity.
MOSET: Why don't you show me your patient records? At least I'll know about your accomplishments.
EMH: All right.
MOSET: Everything seems to be in order. Shall we get to work?
EMH: Computer, create a holographic re-creation of the alien in Sickbay.
MOSET: Hand me that cortical stimulator, will you? Yes, thank you.

Captain's log, supplemental. While the Doctor seems to be making progress, Commander Chakotay and I have hit a wall in our attempt to decipher the alien message.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: It was a distress call, right? So maybe if we retransmitted that message others of the species would realise we need their help.
CHAKOTAY: We don't know where they are.
JANEWAY: We'll send it on all subspace bands. If they're out there, they'll hear it.
CHAKOTAY: They might turn out to be unfriendly.
JANEWAY: The Doctor's pretty sure the alien is simply trying to survive. I agree. It'll be a difficult first contact, but we might find a way to communicate.
CHAKOTAY: It's worth a shot.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tuvok, reroute auxiliary power to the deflector dish. Retransmit the alien's message on all subspace bands.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Deflector at full capacity.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
(The deflector dish blasts the message into space.)

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

(The EMH is humming opera. Moset starts to join in.)
MOSET: I'm sorry. My wife tells me I'm tone deaf.
EMH: Not at all. You were right on key. If you enjoy music we can run some opera programmes after we're finished.
MOSET: I'd like that. I think we're ready for a look inside. Scalpel?
EMH: Forgive me for saying so, but this appears to be a rather crude instrument, especially when we have such advanced equipment at our disposal.
MOSET: I often find the simplest tool is the most effective. All of our elaborate scanners and laser scalpels, they remove us from our subjects. Actually feeling the anatomy, the consistency of the internal organs. It can be very instructive. Why don't you do the honours? Make a vertical incision, say twelve centimetres, starting here.
(He cuts into the hologram's back. It screams.)
EMH: We're hurting it.
MOSET: Doctor, it's a hologram.
EMH: Of course. I guess as a hologram myself, I have a certain empathy.
MOSET: Keep going.
(Moset pulls the tissue apart.)
MOSET: Extraordinary. Look at that series of nodes.
EMH: They appear to be clustered along the primary nerve.
MOSET: Multiple neocortices, I'd say.
EMH: Suggesting a highly intelligent species.
MOSET: Yes, but also presenting us with a point of attack.
EMH: Attack?
MOSET: If we induce a neurostatic shock in one of these nodes, I believe it will travel to the others. The creature will lose motor function and we'll be able to remove it.
EMH: The procedure will probably kill the creature.
MOSET: Probably.
EMH: I'd like to find a way to save them both.
MOSET: So would I, in an ideal situation. But we have to set priorities which, in this case, is your crew mate.
EMH: This is a sentient lifeform. For all we know it could be this species' Einstein, its Picasso.
MOSET: Or he could be a psychotic criminal. The point is, we don't know, and we have choices to make.
EMH: Your programme's destabilising.
MOSET: This is such poor timing.
EMH: I'll have to take you offline. But don't worry, we'll have you up and running again in no time. Computer, take Medical Consultant programme offline. Doctor to Ensign Kim.

[Engineering]

KIM: Go ahead, Doc.
EMH: Our new programme's destabilising.
KIM: I'll meet you in Sickbay. We'll try to reinitialise him there. Tabor, I could use some help.
TABOR: Yes, sir.

[Sickbay]

KIM: Try again.
TABOR: No luck.
PARIS: Would it be easier if we reduced the hologram's memory load?
KIM: Maybe, but I don't want to do that unless we absolutely have to.
TORRES: What's going on?
EMH: My consultant's gone offline.
TORRES: The Cardassian? You can leave him off.
EMH: I'm surprised by your attitude, Lieutenant. I never took you for someone who would make generalisations based on race.
TORRES: When it comes to Cardassians, I'm guilty as charged.
EMH: I understand your experience with them was unpleasant, but if you give Crell a chance, I think you'll find that he's a friendly, compassionate man. Not to mention a genius who's trying to save your life.
TORRES: I'll skip the introductions if it's all the same to you.
EMH: Suit yourself. But you should know I plan on asking the Captain to keep him on as a permanent consultant.
TORRES: I'm not the only one who's going to have a problem with that.
EMH: Well, you'll just have to get used to it. Who knows, you may even grow to like him.
TORRES: Don't hold your breath.
EMH: How's it coming?
KIM: We're close.
TABOR: Actually, I think that should do it.
KIM: Good. Computer, reactivate Medical Consultant programme beta one.
MOSET: Hello again.
TABOR: My god.
PARIS: What's wrong?
TABOR: That's Crell Moset.
MOSET: Yes. Do I know you?
TABOR: He killed my brother, my grandfather, hundreds of people. He's a mass murderer!
EMH: You must be mistaken.
TABOR: It's no mistake. Moset performed experiments on living people. Thousands of Bajorans were killed in his so-called hospital.
EMH: Is this true?
MOSET: No. No, he's. There must be some misunderstanding.
TABOR: The liar!
PARIS: Whoa. Take it easy, Tabor. Whoa. He's just a hologram.
MOSET: I'm upsetting him. I should go.
EMH: I'm sorry about this. Computer, transfer Medical Consultant programme to holodeck two.

[Chakotay's office]

TABOR: I can still remember the sounds his instruments made. The screams of his patients. The smell. Chemicals and dead flesh. He operated on my grandfather. Exposed his internal organs to nadion radiation. It took six days for him to die. I promised myself I would never forget.
EMH: You were very young. Is it possible your memory of these events is inaccurate?
TABOR: My memory's just fine. He blinded people so he could study how they adapted. Exposed them to polytrinic acid just to see how long it would take for their skin to heal.
EMH: Ensign, the man you're accusing cured the Fostossa virus. He stopped an epidemic that killed thousands of Bajorans.
TABOR: By infecting hundreds of people so that he could experiment with different treatments. Old, helpless people like my grandfather, because he considered their lives worthless.
EMH: How do you know this?
TABOR: Everybody knew.
CHAKOTAY: I remember some of the Maquis under my command talking about an infamous Cardassian doctor.
EMH: Could these simply have been rumours spread by Bajorans who hated the Cardassians?
TABOR: I was there.
EMH: I don't understand why this isn't in our database.
CHAKOTAY: The Cardassians didn't exactly publicise their wartime medical practices. I wouldn't be surprised if the real Moset went on to live a normal life.
EMH: He's the Chairman of Exobiology at the University of Culat.
TABOR: We may not be able to do anything about the real Moset, Commander, but the programme should be destroyed. Every trace of that man's research should be deleted from the database.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: I had a bad feeling about that hologram the second I saw him.
PARIS: Looks like your instinct was right.
TORRES: I won't let him near me.
PARIS: You're kidding, right?
TORRES: No, I am dead serious.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: If I let that pig operate on me, I'll be benefiting from other people's suffering.
PARIS: You're not being rational.
TORRES: I won't do it.
EMH: What's happening?
PARIS: Her cytotoxin levels are going through the roof. Pulse is rapid and irregular.
EMH: No doubt you've said something to upset her.
PARIS: What she's upset about, Doc, is your Cardassian buddy.
TORRES: Tell him.
EMH: Tell me what?
PARIS: She refuses to let him treat her.
EMH: B'Elanna, we're very close to a solution.
TORRES: Do it without him.
EMH: I don't know that I can.
TORRES: Find another way.
PARIS: She's going into cytotoxic shock.
EMH: Two milligrams of inaprovaline.

Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. I've managed to stabilise Lieutenant Torres for the time being, but the matter of how to proceed with her treatment remains unresolved.

[Engineering]

KIM: Isolate datablock oh four five nine.
EMH: Ensign? You wanted to see me?
KIM: We've been looking for evidence that might support Tabor's accusations.
EMH: Anything?
KIM: Actually, that's why we called you here. It's not looking good.
EMH: Show me.
SEVEN: We've been reviewing data on the Cardassian occupation of Bajor. The alleged site of Moset's crimes.
KIM: Strategic information, log entries kept in battle, sensor scans from Starfleet vessels. This, for example. Requisition records from one of Crell Moset's hospitals.
SEVEN: He was purchasing biochemical agents, including every known strain of the Fostossa virus.
EMH: Of course he needed samples of the virus. That's how vaccines are developed.
KIM: Take a look at the requisition orders.
EMH: Moset didn't ask for any of the enzymes normally required for synthesizing a vaccine.
KIM: It gets worse. Four days after he received the virus samples there was a minor outbreak of Fostossa in the vicinity of his hospital.
SEVEN: Prior to that date there had not been a single case in the entire province.
KIM: I have to report these findings to Commander Chakotay.
(Kim leaves.)
SEVEN: It is curious. The Borg are accused of assimilating information with no regard for life. This Cardassian did the same, and yet his behaviour was tolerated.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

MOSET: Ah, there you are. I'm almost ready to perform the surgery.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres won't allow you to have anything to do with her treatment.
MOSET: Because of that Bajoran?
EMH: We've gathered some corroborating evidence. It appears that he's telling the truth. You committed a series of atrocities during the Cardassian war. Thousands of Bajorans died on your surgical tables.
MOSET: That's absurd. And even if it were true, I'm only a hologram, and I have no memory of those events. They're not part of my programming.
EMH: But you are the holographic representation of Crell Moset. Your programme, despite all its brilliance, is based on his work. He infected patients, exposed them to polytrinic acid, mutilated their living bodies, And now we're reaping the benefits of those experiments. Medically, ethically, it's wrong.
MOSET: What do you suggest we do about it?
EMH: I'm not sure. We may have to delete your programme.
MOSET: Delete me? What about our patient?
EMH: I suppose I'd have to try and treat her on my own.
MOSET: No offence but, you need me.
EMH: I realise that.
MOSET: You're a physician. You know there's always a price to pay for the advancement of medical science.
EMH: Sometimes that price is too high. Torture?
MOSET: Your word, not mine. I cured the Fostossa virus, didn't I? So these experiments you say I conducted obviously helped me devise a treatment. Imagine how many lives would have been lost if I hadn't eliminated this disease.
EMH: That doesn't justify using people in laboratory experiments.
MOSET: As I explained to you, during the Occupation I was forced to improvise. I used what resources I had.
EMH: And ethical considerations, they mean nothing to you?
MOSET: Ethics are arbitrary. How do you suppose your own database was developed? Hmm? My God, half the medical knowledge acquired on Earth came through experiments on lower animals.
EMH: But not people.
MOSET: It's convenient to draw a line between higher and lower species, isn't it?
EMH: This is the twenty fourth century, Crell. Your kind of barbarism ended a long time ago. Or at least, it should have.
MOSET: What difference does it make how long ago the research occurred? What matters is that we can use it to help patients today. Now, are you going to delete my programme and all of the research it contains, or are we going to use it to save B'Elanna's life?

[Chakotay's office]

CHAKOTAY: Come in.
TABOR: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: This request of yours to be relieved of duty. I won't grant it.
TABOR: I have the right to resign my commission.
CHAKOTAY: For what reason?
TABOR: Moral objections to the ship's medical policy.
CHAKOTAY: I understand how difficult this is for you, but you've got to let go of the past. Focus on today and today, B'Elanna's life is in danger. Everything else should be put aside.
TABOR: You don't have the right to violate the memory of my family. As long as that Cardassian hologram is online that's exactly what you're doing.
CHAKOTAY: It's not that simple.
TABOR: It is to me. Crell Moset killed thousands of people in his hospitals. As long as we're willing to benefit from his research, we're no better than he is.

[Briefing room]

EMH: If I had weeks, or even days, maybe I could come up with an alternative. But time is of the essence, and Moset's idea will work.
PARIS: Then you've got to use it.
CHAKOTAY: Even if the Doctor could perform the surgery without Moset's help, he'd still be using the man's research. That would be going against B'Elanna's wishes.
PARIS: We're talking about a woman who has alien tendrils sapping the life out of her. She's obviously not thinking straight.
TUVOK: On the contrary. Her concerns are based in logic.
PARIS: Logic?
TUVOK: If the Doctor uses knowledge that Moset gained through his experiments, we would be validating his methods, inviting further unethical research.
CHAKOTAY: We'd be setting a terrible precedent.
PARIS: We're in the middle of the Delta Quadrant. Who would know?
TUVOK: We would know.
PARIS: Fine. Let's just deactivate the evil hologram and let B'Elanna die. At least we'd have our morals intact.
CHAKOTAY: Tom.
PARIS: And you, Chakotay. Since when do you care what Starfleet thinks?
CHAKOTAY: This isn't about rules and regulations. This is about doing what's right.
PARIS: Spoken like a true Maquis. Well, if you'd just set aside your hatred of the Cardassians for one second
CHAKOTAY: Enough, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: All right, all right. The arguments have been made and we're running out of time. The fact is, you're both right, but when it comes down to it, the only issue I'm concerned about is the well-being of that crew member lying in Sickbay. We'll wrestle with the morality of this situation later, after B'Elanna is back on her feet. Doctor, you have my authorisation to proceed, with Moset's assistance.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Any consequences of this decision will be my responsibility. Dismissed.
PARIS: Thanks.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

(Torres and the alien are there for the procedure.)
MOSET: Scalpel.
(The Doctor places it in his hand.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Ensign Kim, do you hear something?
KIM: Hear what?
TUVOK: A series of high frequencies. They are getting louder.
KIM: Must be those Vulcan ears of yours.
JANEWAY: I hear it too. Anything on sensors?
TUVOK: It appears to be an alien comm. signal. Triaxilating wavelengths.
CHAKOTAY: Origin.
TUVOK: Unknown.
KIM: Captain, a vessel just dropped out of warp. Approaching fast off the port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(It is identical to the earlier vessel. The noise gets louder.)
CHAKOTAY: Can we dampen it a little?
TUVOK: Negative.
(Then it goes quiet.)
JANEWAY: Harry, tell me that was just their way of saying hello.
KIM: I wish I could. The universal translator doesn't have a clue.
TUVOK: Perhaps they are waiting for our response.
JANEWAY: Well, then, let's give them one. Open a channel, all subspace bands. This is Captain Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We cannot interpret your message but please try to understand. We are on a peaceful mission and we intend you no harm. We have one of your kind on board our ship. It's injured, and we're attempting to provide treatment. If you can understand this
(The screeching returns.)

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

(Moset has cut into the alien's back, this time for real.)
MOSET: I'm ready to stimulate the primary neural pathways. Cortical probe. I'm applying it to the primary neocortex. Its motor control is weakening but not enough to release the patient. Our little friend needs a bigger jolt. I'm increasing the pulse frequency.
EMH: The synapses are degenerating. You're killing it.
MOSET: Don't lose your nerve, Doctor. Not when we're this close.
EMH: Lower the pulse frequency.
MOSET: If I do that the creature will regain control.
EMH: I don't care. Lower the pulse.
MOSET: Doctor.
EMH: Lower the pulse frequency or I'll take your programme offline.
MOSET: You realise you're reducing our chances of saving her?
EMH: Not necessarily. Give me the probe. The probe, Doctor. If we apply the pulse to the secondary neocortex, we should be able to achieve the same results at a lower frequency.
MOSET: Not particularly efficient, but it might prove interesting.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm reading an energy surge in their forward section.
(Whumph!)
CHAKOTAY: Shields!

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

EMH: Doctor to bridge. The holodeck's going offline.

[Bridge]

EMH [OC]: What's happening up there?
JANEWAY: Stand by, Doctor.
TUVOK: They've locked on to us with some sort of tractor beam. It's draining our power.
CHAKOTAY: Reroute emergency power to the holodeck. Send an antimatter surge through the shield's matrix. See if that'll loosen their grip.
TUVOK: No effect. We do have weapons.
JANEWAY: No. If they wanted to destroy us, they wouldn't be using a tractor beam. They're trying to rescue their crew member.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: This isn't about logic, Tuvok, it's about instinct. Now I may not speak their language, but I have a gut feeling they don't want an armed conflict any more than we do. Bridge to Doctor. What's your status?

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

MOSET: The procedure's working.
EMH: Almost there, Captain.
MOSET: It's losing motor control. The tendrils are withdrawing from her lungs, liver, kidneys. The alien's life signs are failing.
EMH: We need a substitute for the metabolic energy it was taking from B'Elanna.
MOSET: Could we restore its own metabolism?
EMH: Perhaps. Give it forty milligrams of stenophyl. It's going into anaphylactic shock.
MOSET: All right, increasing the dosage to sixty milligrams.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We've lost power on decks seven through twelve.
TUVOK: Shields are failing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor?

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

EMH: Stand by, Captain.
MOSET: Anaphylaxia is subsiding.
EMH: Its electrolytic reactions are increasing. Its metabolism is stabilising on its own. Bridge, beam the lifeform to its ship.

[Bridge]

KIM: Transport complete.
TUVOK: The alien ship is withdrawing, Captain.
(Full power is restored, and they get a final screech message.)
JANEWAY: You're welcome.

[Ready room]

EMH: I've released B'Elanna to her quarters.
JANEWAY: Her condition?
EMH: Stable, but her nervous system has suffered extreme trauma. She'll need time to recover. Several days, at least.
JANEWAY: Good work.
EMH: I should caution you, Captain. When I told her that we'd used Moset's programme she was unhappy, to put it mildly. I nearly had to sedate her.
JANEWAY: It sounds like her Klingon temper has fully recovered.
EMH: It practically qualifies as a chronic condition.
JANEWAY: I'll speak to her.
EMH: There's one more topic of concern. Should we delete the programme or keep Moset in our database for future emergencies?
JANEWAY: I'm inclined to leave this up to you, Doctor. You're the Chief Medical Officer on this ship. As far as I'm concerned, there's no one more qualified than you to make that decision.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: But please make it quickly. I'm eager to resolve this matter. There's been enough moral controversy on this ship for one day.

[Torres' quarters]

(Torres is reading and burning incense.)
TORRES: Come in.
JANEWAY: At ease. Interesting fragrance. I'm surprised it hasn't set off the environmental alarms.
TORRES: It's a combination of mental relaxant and expeller of demons. It's an ancient Klingon remedy.
JANEWAY: Feeling any better?
TORRES: I'm alive.
JANEWAY: I hope you can understand why I went against your wishes, B'Elanna. Losing you was unacceptable. I know you're angry, but we need to put this behind us. Understood?
TORRES: Is that an order?
JANEWAY: Yes.
TORRES: You can't order someone to get rid of an emotion, Captain.
JANEWAY: And what emotion is that?
TORRES: You had no right to make that decision for me!
JANEWAY: I'm the Captain. You're my crewman. I did what I thought best. I get the feeling there are still a few demons in the air. Let's hope this does the trick, huh?

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]

(Moset is humming opera.)
MOSET: Doc, how's our patient?
EMH: Recuperating.
MOSET: We did it.
EMH: Yes, we did.
MOSET: A celebration is in order. How about listening to that opera you promised me? Oh, you're er, still wrestling with your ethical subroutines. Take my advice. It's a waste of time. What's important is that we saved two lives today.
EMH: I'm not concerned with today. It's tomorrow I'm worried about. Captain Janeway has left your future in my hands. She believes that, as Voyager's Chief Medical Officer, it's up to me to decide whether your programme remains in our database.
MOSET: Personally, I predict a long and fruitful collaboration between us.
EMH: Oh?
MOSET: Think about what we accomplished in the last twenty four hours. Our first case was a triumph. Both patients are thriving, and we advanced the frontiers of medical science. I've already outlined a paper that you and I will one day present to the Federation Medical Academy. Total Systemic Invasion of a Klingon-Human Hybrid by a Cytoplasmic Pseudoparasite. Has a nice ring to it, don't you think?
EMH: Are we also going to tell them where you honed your surgical techniques? A footnote, perhaps. For further details, see Cardassian death camps.
MOSET: Those techniques were crucial this morning. Where was your sarcasm then?
EMH: I didn't come here to debate the issue with you, Crell. I came here to inform you of my decision. It is my judgment that the Medical Consultant Programme and all the algorithms contained therein shall be deleted from the database. In light of recent evidence I cannot in good conscience utilise research that was derived from such inhuman practices.
MOSET: In good conscience? What about the well-being of your crew? You're confronted by new forms of life every day, many of them dangerous. You need me. Delete my programme and you violate the first oath you took as a physician. Do no harm.
EMH: Do no harm. You have no right to say those words. Computer.
MOSET: You can erase my programme, Doctor, but you can never change the fact that you've already used some of my research. Where was your conscience when B'Elanna was dying on that table? Ethics? Morality? Conscience? Funny how they all go out the airlock when we need something. Are you and I really so different?
EMH: Computer, delete Medical Consultant Programme and all related files.


S5 E9
Thirty Days
Stardate: 52179.4
Original Airdate: 9 Dec 1998

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris. I hereby reduce you to the rank of Ensign, and I sentence you to thirty days solitary confinement. Take Ensign Paris to the brig.
PARIS: I know the way.
(The two security guards follow him out. Torres, Seven and Kim watch him go past in the corridor.)

[Turbolift]

PARIS: Brig.

[Brig]

(Paris removes his comm badge and steps inside the cell. The forcefield is activated. He lies down on the bed. A few days later, he decides to do some push-ups.)
PARIS: One, two, three
(The door opens.)
PARIS: Ninety eight, ninety nine, one hundred.
NEELIX: Staying in shape?
PARIS: Oh, yeah. I do it every time I'm in jail.
NEELIX: Well, I hope all that exercise gave you an appetite.
PARIS: Leola root stew again? That's the third time this week. Can't you just replicate me a pizza?
NEELIX: Sorry, Tom. Basic nutrition only. Captain's orders.
PARIS: Bread and water, huh? Let's have it.
(The guard lowers the forcefield and Neelix hands over the tray. The forcefield is raised again.)
NEELIX: I got you the PADD you asked for.
PARIS: Oh, thanks. So, did you ask the warden about those holodeck privileges?
NEELIX: She said, and I quote, tell Mister Paris this is punishment, not shore leave.
PARIS: It was worth a try.
NEELIX: Well, see you next meal.
PARIS: Wait. Leaving already? Pull up a chair, stay a while.
NEELIX: Sorry. No non-essential conversation with the prisoner.
PARIS: Did the words cruel and unusual mean anything to her? I'm telling you, Neelix, the inmates are getting restless. She's going to have a full-blown prison riot on her hands.
(Neelix leaves. Paris picks up the PADD and thinks for a while.)
PARIS: Begin letter. Dear Father. Pause and erase. Begin. To Admiral Paris. Pause and erase. Begin. Hey, Dad, long time no see. Chances are you'll never receive this letter, but in case you do, there's a few things I wanted to say. First of all, bad news. Er, I'm in jail again. Wait, keep listening, don't turn this off. I want you to know how I ended up in here because it's not what you think. It all started on a morning I was doing something you would find a complete waste of time.

[Holodeck - Captain Proton programme]

(Captain Proton's rocket backpack is flying him through space.)
PARIS: Captain Proton to Buster Kincaid. I've destroyed Doctor Chaotica's mind control machine and I'm on my way back to the spaceship.
DEMONICA-JENNY [OC]: Hello, Proton.
PARIS: Who is this?

[Proton's ship]

DEMONICA-JENNY: An old friend.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Make that two old friends.
PARIS [OC]: The Twin Mistresses of Evil. I should have known.
DEMONICA-JENNY: I'm afraid your trusty sidekick is indisposed at the moment.
(Kim is chained by the wrists between two uprights.)
KIM: Don't worry about me, Captain. I can handle myself.
DEMONICA-JENNY: We'll see about that. Bring me the brain probe.
MALICIA-MEGAN: The what?
DEMONICA-JENNY: The brain probe, you insolent fool.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Oh, right. Your wish is my command. Sorry, Harry.
KIM: No problem. Torture me all you want, Demonica, I'll never crack.
DEMONICA-JENNY: Oh, but you will.
MALICIA-MEGAN: By the time we're through with you you'll be begging to tell us everything you know.
DEMONICA-JENNY: You'll be our puppet.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Our slave,
KIM: Great. you're doing great.
(The airlock opens. Enter Captain Proton.)
PARIS: You're done for, Demonica.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Malicia, She's Demonica.
PARIS: Whatever. You two are going to jail for a very long time.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Ooh.
DEMONICA-JENNY: Ooh.
PARIS: Move it, toots.
MALICIA-MEGAN: He's so brave.
DEMONICA-JENNY: It's a shame we'll have to kill him.
KIM: I've got everything under control, Proton, shouldn't you be getting back to Headquarters?
PARIS: And leave you at the mercy of these two?
KIM: Come on, Tom. I'm just getting to the good part.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Senior officers report to the bridge.
PARIS: I guess the good part'll have to wait.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Any progress on those starcharts?
MEGAN: I'll have them to you by fourteen hundred.
PARIS: Fourteen hundred? You told me they'd be done yesterday.
MEGAN: I'm sorry, Tom. The sensor array went offline. Seven of Nine will have it up and running this morning. Fourteen hundred, I promise.
KIM: You need some help? I'm not on duty again till tomorrow morning.
MEGAN: No, I don't want to spoil your day off.
KIM: Oh, I don't mind.
MEGAN: Thanks anyway.
JENNY: See you Lieutenant. Buster.
KIM: Bye.
PARIS: I think Jenny really likes you.
KIM: Yeah, I know.
PARIS: I thought the feeling was mutual.
KIM: How many times do I have to tell you? I like Megan, but she won't give me the time of day.
PARIS: What is the difference?
KIM: You can't be serious.
PARIS: They're the Delaney sisters, Harry. They're twins.
KIM: Are you kidding? They're nothing alike. Jenny's aggressive and sometimes annoying. But Megan, she's quiet, artistic, and she's got that cute little dimple in her right cheek.
PARIS: Jenny doesn't have the dimple?
KIM: No dimple.

[Turbolift]

KIM: Bridge.
PARIS: Well, you've done it again, Harry.
KIM: What?
PARIS: Fallen for the unattainable woman. First it was a hologram, then a Borg, and now the wrong twin.
KIM: At least I'm consistent.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Sorry to interrupt your fun, gentlemen, but long range sensors have picked up something interesting.
CHAKOTAY: A concentrated mass of oxygen and hydrogen. Lots of animal and plant life.
KIM: An M-class planet?
JANEWAY: No, that's the interesting part.
TUVOK: We're entering visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(A blue planet. Uniformly blue all over.)
KIM: What is it?
PARIS: It's an ocean.
CHAKOTAY: According to these readings, it's bigger than the Atlantic and Pacific combined.
PARIS: What's holding it together?
KIM: Looks like there's some sort of containment field keeping it from dissipating.
JANEWAY: Take us in closer, Tom.
(Three vessels fly out of the water.)
PARIS: Are those starships or submarines?
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Janeway of the Starship Voyager. Please identify yourselves.
TUVOK: They are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields. Red alert.
TUVOK: Shields holding, no damage. Should I return fire?
JANEWAY: Not yet. Voyager to approaching vessels. We have no hostile intentions.
PARIS: They're maintaining their course.
JANEWAY: Target the lead ship and take out their weapons.
TUVOK: Direct hit.
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: I guess we got their attention. On screen.
(A lipless humanoid appears.)
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: I'm Deputy Consul Burkus of the Monean Maritime Sovereignty. You've violated our space. Withdraw or we'll resume firing.
JANEWAY: Consul, we could have destroyed your ships, but we didn't. We have no interest in a fight.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Then why are you here?
JANEWAY: Because we're explorers, and we're fascinated by your ocean. And we'd like to learn more about it, and your people if you'd be willing.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: And if we are not?
JANEWAY: We'll be disappointed, but we'll leave you alone.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Your ship's impressive.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd be happy to give you a tour.

[Corridor]

(Three Moneans come aboard.)
BURKUS: Forgive our vigilance, Captain. Over the years, my government has had to protect our ocean from more than one hostile species.
JANEWAY: I understand. We're also very protective of our own natural resources.
NEELIX: We're always interested in learning about other cultures. Yours sounds particularly fascinating.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: And this is Voyager's command centre. Feel free to have a look around.
NEELIX: I'm curious, Consul. Have your people always lived here?
BURKUS: Our ancestors were nomadic. They only discovered the waters three hundred years ago.
PARIS: I'll bet they were as stunned as we were to find this huge ball of water floating in space.
BURKUS: Yes. Mister?
PARIS: Paris. Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: My First Officer, Commander Chakotay.
BURKUS: They realised they could farm sea vegetation, extract oxygen from the ocean for their ships, create a permanent home.
PARIS: What's your population?
BURKUS: More than eighty thousand.
PARIS: And you all live underwater?
TUVOK: Lieutenant, we do have other business to attend to.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, escort our guest to the briefing room. Care to join us, Mister Paris?
PARIS: How could you tell?

[Briefing room]

NEELIX: Do you still live aboard your ships?
BURKUS: We've built an industrial infrastructure and undersea dwellings, but yes, most of our people still choose to live as our ancestors did.
JANEWAY: Any idea how the ocean came into existence? In my experience, it's a unique phenomenon.
BURKUS: Riga?
RIGA: There are several theories. Our clerics teach that the ocean was a divine gift from the creators to protect and sustain us. But, in my opinion, the most plausible explanation is that the ocean formed naturally, much the same way that a gas giant does.
JANEWAY: Makes sense.
RIGA: Unfortunately, our limited knowledge of the phenomenon has created a few problems.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
BURKUS: I'm not sure this is an appropriate topic.
RIGA: But they might be able to help us.
JANEWAY: We'll do anything we can.
RIGA: The ocean's losing containment. Hydro-volume has decreased more than seven percent in the last year alone.
JANEWAY: Any idea what's causing it?
RIGA: No. To make a thorough study we'd need to explore the ocean centre where I believe the gravitational currents are fluctuating.
PARIS: But that's more that six hundred kilometres deep.
RIGA: Our best research vessel can only go one hundred kilometres. Beyond that the pressure's too great. 
PARIS: Well, we could take you there. Captain?

[Ready room]

(Over a pot of tea.)
JANEWAY: I had no idea you were such an old salt.
PARIS: When I saw that ocean today, it reminded me of the first time I read Jules Verne.
JANEWAY: 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
PARIS: I must have read it twenty thousand times. I was obsessed with stories about the ocean. All of my friends were busy with their holoprogrammes. I had my head buried in Captains Courageous, Moby Dick.
JANEWAY: So your interest in history includes the nineteenth century as well?
PARIS: Ancient sailing ships were always my first love. I had it all planned. Finish high school, join the Federation Naval Patrol. But my father had other ideas.
JANEWAY: You'd think Admiral Paris might have understood his son's passion.
PARIS: As far as he was concerned, the only ship I was going to serve on had to have a Starfleet insignia on it.
JANEWAY: So now you have an opportunity to make up for lost time.
PARIS: Captain, with a few simple thruster modifications to the Delta Flyer, she will be seaworthy in no time.
JANEWAY: Good. It'd take at least a week to make the necessary modifications to Voyager.
PARIS: Then it's my mission?
JANEWAY: Bon voyage.

[Corridor]

PARIS: And so, I thought to myself, who better than Harry to be my first mate?
KIM: First mate?
PARIS: Oh, sailor talk. You'll get the hang of it. I'm telling you, Harry, I have been dreaming about something like this for as long as I can remember.
KIM: Correct me if I'm wrong, but there is a mission involved here, right?
PARIS: Of course, but there's no law says we can't have a little fun along the way. Ah, boatswain. Ready to shove off?
SEVEN: What are you talking about, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Call me Skipper.
KIM: Sailor talk. You'll get used to it.
SEVEN: I think not. Hull and thruster reinforcements are complete.
PARIS: That's what I wanted to hear. 
RIGA: Oh, excuse me. Am I in the right place?
PARIS: Welcome aboard. I see you like to travel light.
RIGA: These are my instruments for measuring depth, pressure, currents.
SEVEN: We will not need them. This vessel is equipped with a complete sensor array.
RIGA: Oh.
PARIS: It's okay. You can store your gear in the hold.

[Delta Flyer]

KIM: Twenty thousand kilometres to the surface.
PARIS: Immersion shielding?
SEVEN: Active.
PARIS: Anchors aweigh.
(The Delta Flyer enters the ocean. They glide down past tall buildings and other things.)
PARIS: Those structures, what are they?
RIGA: It's our main oxygen refinery and desalination plant.
SEVEN: Corrosion resistant alloys, variable density ballast. An efficient design.
KIM: That means she's impressed.
RIGA: We're very proud of what we've built here.
PARIS: I can see why.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
(Chakotay escorts Burkus.)
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we have some disturbing news.
BURKUS: Oh?
JANEWAY: We've run a computer simulation to determine the rate of dissipation. It's worse than Mister Riga thought.
CHAKOTAY: According to our estimates the ocean could experience a complete loss of containment in less than five years.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
BURKUS: Your calculations could be wrong.
JANEWAY: I know it sounds grim, but there may be some way to stop the process.
BURKUS: And if there isn't?
JANEWAY: You might have to consider evacuating.
BURKUS: I'm supposed to go back and explain this to forty seven regional sovereigns? They'll pass their first unanimous resolution, calling for my head.
JANEWAY: I can imagine how difficult this must be for you, but you will have to tell them.
BURKUS: Perhaps, but I'll wait until your Delta Flyer returns. Maybe they'll find something tangible.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: We're at a depth of five hundred and sixty kilometres.
(Creak)
RIGA: What was that?
SEVEN: The hull contracting.
KIM: Rerouting additional power to structural integrity. Nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: I'm detecting multiphasic energy discharges bearing zero one two mark six. Range twelve kilometres. A structure.
RIGA: At this depth?
PARIS: Adjusting course. I can't see anything. Give me forward illumination, Harry.
RIGA: What is it?
KIM: It's generating massive amounts of artificial gravity. Looks like some kind of field reactor.
RIGA: If it's malfunctioning that would explain the loss of hydro-volume.
PARIS: Maybe it can be repaired. It looks ancient.
KIM: Well, if these readings are right, it's at least a hundred thousand years old.
RIGA: We have no records of any previous inhabitants. Who built it? Where did they go?
KIM: Looks like the reactor's controlled by a core computer. I'll try to upload the database and get some answers.
PARIS: Initiate the interface.
SEVEN: Upload in progress
(The Flyer shudders and an alarm sounds.).
RIGA: What's happening?
PARIS: We've got a visitor.
(A massive creature swims above them.)
RIGA: What was it?
KIM: You're the one who lives here. You tell us.
RIGA: No one's ever been this far down before. We don't know anything about marine life at these depths.
SEVEN: You are about to have the opportunity to make a detailed study.
(They get rammed.)
SEVEN: The creature is emitting biothermic discharges.
KIM: It's like some kind of electric eel.
PARIS: Only a hell of a lot bigger.
SEVEN: And significantly more powerful. That last discharge exceeded five hundred thousand volts.
KIM: The shields are fried, Tom. You might want to think about getting us out of here.
(Another big hit.)
PARIS: Thrusters are offline.
SEVEN: Targeting forward phasers.
RIGA: No, you can't kill it.
SEVEN: I do not intend to. Unfortunately the creature does not seem to be of a similar opinion.
PARIS: How's that upload coming?
KIM: Another couple of minutes.
SEVEN: Firing phasers.
PARIS: We only made him madder.
SEVEN: The creature is retreating.
KIM: We've got a breach.
PARIS: I'm on it.

[Brig]

PARIS: Six hundred kilometres underwater, propulsion offline, water pouring into the cabin. It was like something out of one of those Jules Verne stories you used to read me when I was a kid.
(A whumph! knocks Paris off his feet.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Red alert. All hands to battle stations.
PARIS: Hey, what about me? If we're in trouble we need our best pilot at the helm! You can't just leave me here! (Another Whumph slams him into the cell wall. Later, the EMH is making a house call for the bump on his head.)
PARIS: Five ships? And they just opened fire without warning?
EMH: Mmm hmm.
PARIS: How did we get away?
EMH: Apparently, Ensign Culhane confused the enemy with a brilliant series of evasive manoeuvres. I hear Captain Janeway is considering him for Chief Conn. officer.
PARIS: Oh, yeah? Well, you just tell the Captain that Culhane's brilliant manoeuvres almost knocked me unconscious. You'd think he'd never flown a shuttle, much less a starship.
EMH: There we are,
PARIS: That's it? Aren't you going to run a neurological scan? Maybe I should be granted a medical reprieve.
EMH: Your injury was what Naomi Wildman refers to as a boo-boo.
PARIS: Come on, Doc, you don't understand what it's like being down here all day, every day. I'm going crazy.
EMH: Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't that the idea?
PARIS: No, seriously Doc, you might want to take me down to Sickbay for a full psychiatric evaluation. Three or four days of observation at least.
EMH: See you in twenty days.
(The Doctor leaves.)
PARIS: Doc! Resume recording. Okay, Dad, where were we? Ah, right. We had just sprung a leak.

[Delta Flyer]

(Paris fixes the hull breach with a laser welder.)
PARIS: Nothing like a cold shower to wake up the senses.
KIM: Structural integrity is weakening. We've lost communications, shields, propulsion.
SEVEN: We can reduce our density by venting plasma and transporting all non-essential equipment off the ship. It will take time, but we will eventually rise to the surface.
PARIS: I think we should stay.
RIGA: Stay?
PARIS: I'm not about to be scared off by a few damaged systems.  
KIM: Tom, don't you think maybe you're carrying this Captains Courageous thing a little too far?
PARIS: Look, it's a good bet the reactor's malfunctioning. Now we're only going to get one shot at fixing it. You want to leave? Fine. Give me an environmental suit and you can pick me up after you've repaired the Flyer.
KIM: You're going for a swim? Are you crazy?
PARIS: You have a better idea?
KIM: Well, we already managed to interface with the reactor's computer. Maybe we can make the repairs, maybe we can't, but I'm not leaving you down here alone.
PARIS: What about you two?
RIGA: I'll stay.
PARIS: Seven?
SEVEN: It is in my nature to comply with the Collective.

[Bridge]

(A plume of water leaves the ocean.)
TUVOK: I'm detecting a breach in the containment field.
CHAKOTAY: Any way we can seal it?
TUVOK: We might try reinforcing the field with a deflector beam.
JANEWAY: Do it. Try hailing the Delta Flyer again.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing.
BURKUS: What do you think's happened?
JANEWAY: They may be too deep to receive a transmission.
BURKUS: They may have had an accident.
JANEWAY: It's possible.
BURKUS: Possible? Captain, I'll need a better explanation than that. What am I supposed to tell the Council?
JANEWAY: Clarify something for me. Are you more concerned about the lives of the people on that shuttle or your political career?

[Delta Flyer]

RIGA: What's that?
SEVEN: A gravimetric discharge. The reactor's core is unstable.
PARIS: You'd be unstable too if you were as old as this thing.
KIM: Age has nothing to do with it. The reactor's diverting massive amounts of power to its structural integrity field. Power normally reserved for oceanic containment.
PARIS: That would explain why containment is weakening.
KIM: Looks like the density of the water's been increasing over the past few years. It seems the reactor's just trying to keep itself from being crushed.
PARIS: Can we initiate a power transfer? Stabilise the core?
SEVEN: I believe so, but it would be a temporary solution.
PARIS: That's better than nothing.

[Bridge]

(The plume returns to the ocean.)
TUVOK: Captain, full containment has just been re-established.
JANEWAY: The deflector beam?
TUVOK: Negative. The ocean appears to have been stabilised from within.
BURKUS: It looks like our team has succeeded.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up an object on a slow ascent. It's the Flyer.

[Delta Flyer - lab]

RIGA: You've found something?
PARIS: I've been studying the generator's database. You're not going to believe this, but apparently, your ocean used to be part of a landmass.
RIGA: Really?
PARIS: As far as I can tell, it was part of a planetary ecosystem inhabited by a very advanced civilisation.
RIGA: What happened to them?
PARIS: That's a good question. All I know is they launched this reactor into orbit. They used some kind of elaborate kinetic transfer system to draw the water and everything in it up to the reactor.
RIGA: Extraordinary. Why would anyone want to move an entire ocean?
PARIS: Maybe there was some kind of disaster on the planet, or maybe it was just an experiment.
RIGA: That must have been a massive undertaking.
PARIS: Took them almost two hundred years.
RIGA: I wonder what they'd think if they knew we settled here and built another civilisation.
PARIS: Actually, I think they'd be pretty concerned.
RIGA: Oh?
PARIS: This field reactor that they designed, it's a pretty amazing piece of technology. Durable. I don't think it's responsible for the loss of containment.
RIGA: But as soon as we made the recalibration, the water stabilised. I don't see what else it could be.
PARIS: Riga, your mining operations are destroying the ocean.

[Paris' dream]

(A young boy is playing with a four-masted sailing ship.)
ADMIRAL PARIS [OC]: You'll never get into Starfleet Academy by playing with toys. Do your homework. Are you listening to me, Thomas?
JANEWAY [OC]: Thomas Eugene Paris, I hereby reduce you to the rank of Ensign and I sentence you to thirty years of solitary confinement
ADMIRAL PARIS [OC]: Go to your room, young man. That's an order. Stay there and think about what I've said.
KIM: Tom?

[Brig]

KIM: Tom? Tom, wake up. Bad dream?
PARIS: Oh, you could say that.
KIM: You know, you look like hell.
PARIS: Thanks. How'd you get past the guard?
KIM: The Vulcan neck pinch.
PARIS: Come to spring me?
KIM: Well, the Captain finally gave me permission to visit, but I've only got a few minutes.
PARIS: That's big of her.
KIM: How are you doing?
PARIS: Oh, thirty days? No problem. How's B'Elanna?
KIM: She misses you.
PARIS: Yeah, I know the feeling.
KIM: So, what have you been doing to pass the time?
PARIS: Thinking and, thinking. Trying not to think. Actually, I started recording a letter to my father.
KIM: Really?
PARIS: Yeah. For some reason I, I wanted to explain to him how I ended up in here. I didn't want him to think. Well, anyway, I realised how ridiculous it was.
KIM: You should finish it.
PARIS: Give me one good reason.
KIM: Maybe he'll hear it someday.
PARIS: Doubtful.
KIM: You'll feel better getting it off your chest?
PARIS: Are you bucking for ship's counsellor, Harry?
KIM: What are you going to do, delete the letter? That would be pointless.
PARIS: At least I'm consistent.
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: Thanks for the visit, Harry.
KIM: See you in fourteen.
(Harry steps out of the cell, and the forcefield goes up.)
KIM: What was it you once told me? That your father used to say you never finished anything.
(Kim leaves.)
PARIS [OC]: Resume recording, So, we told Consul Burkus about the alien field reactor and how his oxygen refineries were destroying it. He took the news pretty well. At first.

[Briefing room]

BURKUS: The Council's very grateful for your help, Captain. They've asked me to request the shield and thruster schematics for your Delta Flyer. We're hoping to design a probe that'll allow us to monitor the containment generator.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres will give you everything you need.
TORRES: I've also drawn up some designs for an oxygen replication system. It'll allow you to create free oxygen without extricating it from the water. It won't solve your problems overnight, but it's a start.
BURKUS: I'm sure it'll be very helpful.
RIGA: Our oxygen extraction levels are still dangerously high. I'm going to recommend shutting down refineries four, five and six.
BURKUS: We'll take it under advisement. Well, Captain, I wish you a safe journey.
JANEWAY: Oh, we have a few more suggestions if you'd like to hear them.
BURKUS: Please. Pass them along to Mister Riga. He'll include them in his report.
PARIS: I'm curious. Who's going to read that report?
BURKUS: It will be given to the subcommittees on life support and agriculture.
RIGA: Excuse me, Consul. I'm not sure you understand the magnitude of the crisis. What you're suggesting could take months.
BURKUS: Thank you, Mister Riga.
PARIS: You should listen to him. If you don't make some serious changes around here soon, that ocean won't be here much longer.
BURKUS: As I said, we understand his concerns.
PARIS: Do you? Seems to me like you're just trying to sidestep the issue and send us on our way.
BURKUS: With all due respect, who are you to tell us what to do with our ocean?
PARIS: With all due respect, it's not your ocean.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
BURKUS: It's all right, Captain. I'd like to respond, but not as a diplomat, as a Monean. You came here claiming you wanted to learn about our way of life and now, having spent three days here, you're suggesting we abandon it. We have an expression. Brine in the veins. Tell him what it means.
RIGA: It's used to describe someone who has special connection to the waters.
BURKUS: My family has lived here for ten generations. We protected this ocean, cultivated it, lived in harmony with the animals that inhabit it. Can you say the same? I didn't think so. Good day, Captain.
(The three Moneans leave.)
PARIS: We can't just let this go.
JANEWAY: What do you want me to do?
PARIS: Of course. The almighty Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: Would you please excuse us, Lieutenant?
TORRES: See you later.  
(Torres leaves.)
JANEWAY: I know you're upset, Lieutenant, but when you're in a room with me you check that attitude at the door, understood?
PARIS: Captain, I'm sorry
JANEWAY: We can't expect an entire society to change because we think they should.
PARIS: Then you agree with me.
JANEWAY: Yes, and we gave them the help they asked for. We told them what we know. Now it's up to them to do what they think is appropriate.
PARIS: You heard that Consul. They're not going to do a damn thing.
JANEWAY: Maybe not, but that's their prerogative.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: End of discussion, Lieutenant. At fourteen hundred hours, we'll resume a course for the Alpha Quadrant. Is that clear. Is that clear?
PARIS: As a bell.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

(Paris is not in costume, he's just sitting and thinking.)
TORRES: Hey. Here to stamp out intergalactic evil?
PARIS: It's funny.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: I went on this mission expecting to play out a childhood fantasy. But along the way, when I realised that ocean would just be gone one day, it started to matter to me. It sounds pretty stupid, huh?
TORRES: No. No, it sounds like you've found yourself a cause.
PARIS: I never thought of myself as a cause kind of guy.
TORRES: Well, for what it's worth, I'm proud of you.
PARIS: Thanks. But Captain Proton's not going to be able to save the day this time, is he?
TORRES: What about Tom Paris?

[Transporter room]

RIGA: Council chamber, please.
(Paris runs in.)
PARIS: Riga. You're dismissed, crewman.
(The transporter operator leaves.)
PARIS: I want you to tell me honestly. What do you think's going to happen now?
RIGA: I think the bureaucracy isn't going to make more than token changes.
PARIS: Isn't there anything else you can do?
RIGA: I don't see how, other than taking the oxygen refineries offline.
PARIS: What would happen, hypothetically, if someone were to shut down the refineries?
RIGA: Well, I suppose they'd have to be rebuilt.
PARIS: Yeah, and they'd probably be more willing to redesign them while they're at it. If nothing else, it would grab their attention.
RIGA: Are you suggesting
PARIS: I'm just asking questions, because I'm not supposed to get involved in the internal affairs of alien worlds. Unless, of course, someone makes a direct request.
RIGA: If you can get me down there, I'd be willing to do it.
PARIS: You'd be risking your life.
RIGA: I know.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, there has just been an unauthorised launch from shuttlebay one, The Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: Tom.
(The Flyer plunges into the ocean.)
JANEWAY:  Hail him.
TUVOK: No response.
CHAKOTAY: Try a tractor beam.
TUVOK: We're out of range.
KIM: We're being hailed, Captain. It's Consul Burkus. 
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Your shuttlecraft has violated our borders. I demand an explanation.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris is acting without authorisation.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: To what end?
JANEWAY: According to our scans, Mister Riga is with him. I have to assume they intend to take some sort of radical action to protect the ocean.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Then I presume you intend to take radical action to stop them.

[Delta Flyer]

(The Flyer is pursued by Monean craft firing weapons. The hull is creaking ominously.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull pressure approaching critical.
RIGA: We're going down too fast.
PARIS: It's the only way we can outrun your ships.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Paris. Return to Voyager immediately.
PARIS: Sorry, Captain. I can't do that.
JANEWAY [OC]: Lieutenant, you are disobeying a direct order.
PARIS: I know.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: He cut us off.
JANEWAY: What the hell are they up to?
KIM: Looks like they're heading directly beneath the industrial complex.
JANEWAY: Can we reach them with phasers?
TUVOK: Unadvisable. It would create a hydro-dynamic shock wave.
CHAKOTAY: What about an old-fashioned depth charge?
TUVOK: It should be possible to modify a photon torpedo.
CHAKOTAY: We could programme it to detonate once it's in proximity to the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: The torpedo is ready, Captain. However, the Delta Flyer has submerged below our targeting range.
KIM: Consul Burkus, hailing again.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Our refinery workers have been given five minutes to clear the structure. Was this the kind of evacuation you had in mind, Captain?
JANEWAY: Can you get them our in time?
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Yes, but,
JANEWAY: Do it. I'll find a way to protect your refinery. End transmission.
BURKUS [on viewscreen]: Captain!  
(Transmission ends.)
TUVOK: He descended to avoid attack. If my calculations are correct, he will have to come back up to a depth of two thousand metres to strike his target.
JANEWAY: Giving us a window of opportunity,
TUVOK: Precisely.
KIM: Captain, this is Tom we're talking about. We're not going to open fire, are we?
JANEWAY: As far as I'm concerned, he forfeited his status as a protected member of this crew the second he launched that shuttle.

[Delta Flyer]

RIGA: How long till we reach our target?
PARIS: Thirty six seconds.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: He's started his ascent.
JANEWAY: Hail him.
KIM: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris, this is your final warning.
KIM: He's not responding.
JANEWAY: Arm the torpedo.
KIM: Twenty seconds to weapons range.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Are you sure you want to go through with this?
RIGA: Do you?
PARIS: I've taken you this far. We'd better arm that missile.
RIGA: Missile armed.
JANEWAY [OC]: Stand down, Mister Paris.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Or I will open fire.
KIM: Still no answer.

[Delta Flyer]

RIGA: Time.
PARIS: Ten seconds. Nine.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Eight. Seven. Six.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Five. Four. Three.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Two. One.
JANEWAY: Fire.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Fire!

[Bridge]

(The two missiles collide, creating a big shockwave.)
TUVOK: The Flyer has been disabled.
JANEWAY: Their missile?
TUVOK: Deflected.

Captain's log, Stardate 52179.4. After salvaging the Delta Flyer, we've resumed our course toward the Alpha Quadrant. I now have to turn my attention to a matter of discipline.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris. You are guilty of insubordination, unauthorised use of a spacecraft, reckless endangerment, and conduct unbecoming an officer. Do you have anything to say?
PARIS: Riga needed my help.
JANEWAY: In doing so, you disobeyed my direct orders.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You violated the protocols that govern this crew.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You nearly caused an armed conflict with the Moneans. And frankly, you're lucky to be standing here right now. I would have destroyed your shuttle if necessary.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. Permission to speak freely. Riga's people weren't going to listen. They were going to ignore our warnings.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
PARIS: Riga knew, and I was the only one who could help them.
JANEWAY: I understand your passion, but passion alone doesn't give you the right to take matters into your own hands. Four years ago, I released you from prison and gave you a fresh start. Until now, you've been a fine officer. Your service on this ship has been exemplary. I really believed you were past this kind of conduct.
PARIS: I've never been very good at playing by the rules. That doesn't mean that serving under your command hasn't changed me, for the better. At least this time, I broke the rules for a reason. For something I believed in.
JANEWAY: I admire your principles, Tom, but I can't ignore what you've done. I hereby reduce you to the rank of Ensign, and I sentence you to thirty days solitary confinement. Take Ensign Paris to the brig.
PARIS: I know the way.

[Brig]

TUVOK: Rise and shine, Ensign. Your thirty days have been served. Report for duty. You may want to shave first.
PARIS: Yes, sir.

[Paris' quarters]

(After his shower and shave.)
TORRES [OC]: Torres to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
TORRES [OC]: Rumour has it that you're free for dinner.
PARIS: Gee, I don't know. Are you sure you want to be seen associating with an ex-con?
TORRES [OC]: My quarters, oh seven hundred. That's an order, Ensign.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
(He sits down with the PADD.)
PARIS: Resume recording. Well, I'm out now and back to my duties. I honestly don't know if I'll ever understand you, or what went wrong between us, but I hope this letter helps you understand me a little better. Computer, file letter in my personal database, and transmit when we're within range of Earth.


S5 E10
Counterpoint
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 16 December 1998

[Bridge]
(Voyager is surrounded by bigger vessels. Chakotay is at th tactical station.)
CHAKOTAY: The Devore ships are assuming a tactical formation.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room. Status.

[Transporter room]

KIM: All set here, Captain. Pattern cohesion looks stable.

[Cargo Bay one]

JANEWAY [OC]: Cargo Bay one, Report.
SEVEN: The bay is clear.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They're powering weapons.
PARIS: Why do they bother? They know we won't resist.
JANEWAY: Protocol, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
(A humanoid with heavily defined zygomatic process but no eyebrows, and a ridge down the middle of his forehead comes on the viewscreen.)
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Gaharay vessel, prepare to be inspected. Crew members are instructed to step away from their stations.
JANEWAY: We know the drill.
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Sidearms and scanning equipment are to be set aside. Deviation from this or any other inspection protocols will not be tolerated.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to be boarded by Devore inspection teams. Give them your full cooperation. Let's get this over with.
CHAKOTAY: Their soldiers have materialised on decks fifteen, eleven, four and one.
(Mahler's 1st symphony, 2nd movement is coming from the ship's speakers.)
KASHYK [OC]: Captain Janeway, report to your Ready room.

[Ready room]

(A younger black-haired Devore man is sitting at her desk.)
KASHYK: Good morning, Captain. I took the liberty of playing this music throughout your ship. I thought it might help your crew relax. Sometimes these inspections can be stressful.
JANEWAY: How thoughtful.
KASHYK: I've replicated some coffee. Black, as usual?
JANEWAY: Black.
KASHYK: Prax here still refuses to try it but then, he's a man of few pleasures.
(Prax and his guard leave.)
KASHYK: Captain, Please, make yourself at home.

[Sickbay]

(The inspection is very thorough, whatever they are looking for. Jefferies tubes, wall panels, Heisenberg compensators, test tubes are all scanned individually.)
EMH: Those cell cultures are extremely fragile. Please
(The Devore drops it deliberately.)

[Engineering]

PRAX: You've been routing power through your transporter system. Why?
TORRES: It's a routine diagnostic. We've been having trouble with our imaging scanners.
PRAX: The problem is in the primary energising coils. Focus your efforts there.
TORRES: Thanks for the tip.

[Cargo Bay one]

(Every crewmember is also scanned.)
PRAX: Contaminated antimatter. This material could interfere with our readings. A bionetic implant?
SEVEN: An interlink node. It permits communication with other Borg drones.
PRAX: You are not a telepath.
SEVEN: No.

[Ready room]

(Kashyk admires an old microscope.)
KASHYK: Remarkable. How old is this?
JANEWAY: About six hundred years. My grandfather gave it to me when I was a child.
KASHYK: It seems you have a long-standing obsession with exploration, Captain. I, on the other hand, have much more in common with this ancient soldier.
JANEWAY: He's from Earth's classical period. It produced some of our greatest artists as well.
KASHYK: Your culture has many contradictions. Violence and beauty, science and faith, all somehow mingled harmoniously. Like the counterpoint of this music. Mahler. Symphony Number One, am I correct?
JANEWAY: You're getting to know my musical database better than I do.
KASHYK: I've had time to review it since our last encounter.
JANEWAY: Tell me, are all of your inspections this personal?
KASHYK: I'm just trying to get to know you, Captain. There's no reason for us to be adversaries. I could be your friend, and right now you could certainly use one.
JANEWAY: Really? Why is that?
KASHYK: Your predicament? I don't expect it's been easy. Thousands of light years from home, navigating by strange stars, trespassing in other people's space, ignoring their laws.
JANEWAY: We're just trying to get back to Earth, Inspector.
KASHYK: Through the Devore Imperium?
JANEWAY: It's tough to avoid.
KASHYK: Still, most people make the effort. We don't exactly embrace outsiders.
JANEWAY: Gaharay?
KASHYK: It means strangers. Which brings me to a matter that could threaten our friendship. I've examined your crew manifest from our last inspection. Commander Tuvok, Ensign Vorik. Vulcans. Ensigns Suder and Jurot. Betazoids. All telepaths, and yet for some reason you neglected to mention them.
JANEWAY: For a very simple reason. They're dead. Tuvok, Vorik, and Jurot died in a shuttle crash about two months ago. Suder was killed in a conflict with a species called the Kazon.
KASHYK: That's fortunate, for you I mean. If I'd known you were harbouring telepaths I would have had to arrest you for breaking our cardinal protocol.
JANEWAY: They were valued members of my crew, Inspector, not criminals.
KASHYK: Perhaps. Captain do you trust me?
JANEWAY: Not for a second.
KASHYK: Exactly, and why should you? Trust has to be earned. It's gradual. And yet it's the foundation of every relationship, professional and personal. It's also a concept alien to the telepathic races. Why take someone at their word when you can simply read their mind?
(Prax enters.)
PRAX: We've completed our inspection. There are no telepaths aboard. However, their sensor logs indicate they deviated from their assigned course on two occasions.
JANEWAY: In both cases, to avoid ion storms.
PRAX: Imperative thirty two, codicil six twenty six. All Gaharay vehicles that deviate from prescribed flight vectors will be impounded, their crews detained and relocated.
KASHYK: Prax, it's clear the Captain didn't intend to break protocol. I expect we can overlook these infractions.
PRAX: Sir? (Kashyk gives him a  Look.) Yes, sir.
KASHYK: Captain, I'm a reasonable man, and you've been cooperative, but consider this a reminder. You have a long trip through Devore space and good friends can be an asset.
JANEWAY: I'll keep it in mind.

[Bridge]

PARIS: The Devore vessels are out of range.
JANEWAY: Bridge to transporter team. You're clear.

[Cargo Bay one]

SEVEN: Cargo Bay one to Ensign Kim. Pattern enhancers are in place.

[Transporter room]

KIM: Initiating rematerialisation sequence.
TORRES [OC]: Harry?

[Engineering]

TORRES: I'm routing maximum power to the transporters.

[Transporter room]

KIM: Got it. Align the confinement beam to ten angstroms. Energising.

[Cargo Bay one]

SEVEN: Ensign Kim, the confinement beam is unstable.

[Transporter room]

KIM: We're trying to correct it now.

[Cargo Bay one]

JANEWAY: What's the problem?
SEVEN: We are unable to consolidate their patterns. They've been in suspension too long.
JANEWAY: Harry, increase power to the imaging scanners.
KIM [OC]: Aye, Captain.

[Transporter room]

KIM: It's working.

[Cargo Bay one]

(14 people solidify. Tuvok and Vorik, and a group of men, women and children.)
JANEWAY: Nice work, Harry. All our guests are present and accounted for.
KIR: Captain.
JANEWAY: They're gone. For now.

Captain's log, supplemental. After weeks of playing hide and seek with the Devore inspectors, our goal is near. A transport vessel that will take our passengers to a wormhole leading out of hostile territory.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Back to your old self again?
KIR: Each time we do this, I feel as thought I've left a few molecules behind in your Cargo bay.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have someone scan the room if it'll make you feel better. Kir, we just received an encoded message from the transport vessel.
KIR: They've changed the rendezvous point again.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so.
KIR: Did they send the new coordinates?
JANEWAY: We're still waiting for them.
TUVOK: Captain, we may have another problem.
EMH: I've just treated Tuvok and two of the refugees for acute cellular degradation. I've repaired most of the damage but unfortunately the effect is cumulative.
KIR: Meaning?
TUVOK: If we continue to go into transporter suspension, some of us may not survive.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're receiving another transmission.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The new coordinates are here, within a Mutara-class nebula two point three six light years from our current position.
CHAKOTAY: It's definitely out of the way. Less chance of being discovered, but it'll take two more days to get there.
JANEWAY: Two days. That increases the chances that we'll run into another inspection.
TUVOK: Given the frequency of patrols in that area, it's likely we'll be stopped at least once.
JANEWAY: Just what the Doctor didn't order. Tuvok, Seven, I want you to lay in a course that'll attract as little attention as possible. Avoid their colonies, space stations, tourist attractions, if they have any.

[Mess hall]

(Uncle Neelix is telling a fairy tale to the children.)
NEELIX: The Ogre of Fire's Castle hovered over the forest like a great black spaceship, turning day into night. Flotter and Trevis knew they had to find a way to keep the Ogre from burning the forest down, but his castle, it was higher than the tallest tree. It seemed hopeless, until they discovered
(A boy speaks up.)
ADAR: A door.
NEELIX: A door. Right, a mysterious door right in the middle of the
ADAR: The clearing.
NEELIX: You know, it's, it's not nice to read people's thoughts when they're telling a story.
ADAR: I'm sorry.
NEELIX: It's all right.
(Janeway enters.)
NEELIX: Why don't you all go play by yourselves for a while. We'll finish the story later.
JANEWAY: How are they doing?
NEELIX: Oh, fine, more or less. They don't understand what all the fuss is about, but they're telepaths, Captain. If the parents are concerned or fearful the children feel it, too. You did the right thing. If we hadn't taken them off that freighter, they'd be in a detention centre by now.
JANEWAY: Well, we're going to make sure that doesn't happen. Is the kitchen still open or are you just serving stories?
NEELIX: For you, it's always open.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel, three hundred thousand kilometres and closing. The signature is Devore.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Shields up. Bridge to Captain.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: More company, Commander?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Looks like it.
JANEWAY: Get our visitors to the Cargo Bay. Stand by for transporter

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Suspension.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Right away. Come on now, we're going to go see your parents. Let's go.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: It's a scout ship. One pilot, no other crew.
PARIS: The vessel hasn't raised shields or charged weapons.
JANEWAY: If this is another inspection, it's certainly a different approach.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. 
KASHYK [on viewscreen]: Captain.
JANEWAY: Inspector.
KASHYK [on viewscreen]: It's urgent that we speak.
JANEWAY: You know the way to my Ready room.

[Ready room]

(Kashyk is out of uniform.)
JANEWAY: It's all right, Ensign. I submitted to your previous inspections because you outgunned me, but I don't see of your warships nearby. I have no intention of cooperating.
KASHYK: I'm not here to search Voyager.
JANEWAY: Then what do you want, Inspector?
KASHYK: Call me Kashyk, please. I never liked that title. In fact, I've left it behind.
JANEWAY: Did somebody offer you a promotion, or are you just having a bad day?
KASHYK: I'm defecting, and I need your help.
JANEWAY: Me?
KASHYK: I've come to ask asylum. Safe passage out of Devore space before I end up in a detention centre myself.
JANEWAY: Now, why would I risk the safety of my crew by harbouring a defector?
KASHYK: Because of what I'm about to tell you. If you continue on your present course, you'll be intercepted by a squadron of my warships. Voyager will be seized, your crew imprisoned or worse. The nebula is a trap, Captain, to catch vessels smuggling telepaths.
JANEWAY: You've inspected my ship three times. You know we aren't smuggling telepaths or anyone else.
KASHYK: What I know is that you have twelve refugees aboard right now. That you rescued them from a freighter three weeks ago, and that you've been concealing them in Cargo Bay one using your transporters. I could have exposed them at any time, but I wanted them to escape as much as you do. I can still protect them, but only if you take me with you. My people know about the wormhole. It's only a matter of time before they find it. You have no choice, Captain. I'm your only hope.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: This is our rendezvous point, inside this nebula. Unfortunately the transport vessel we're supposed to meet is no longer there. Inspector.
(Kashyk magnifies another part of the nebula.)
TUVOK: A Devore warship.
JANEWAY: One of a dozen positioned throughout the nebula. All invisible to our sensors until Kashyk showed me how to compensate for their refractive shielding.
SEVEN: Your soldiers intercepted the transport ship?
KASHYK: Over a week ago. We were the ones who changed the rendezvous coordinates. Two vessels carrying refugees have already been seized. Voyager would have been next.
JANEWAY: All right Inspector, you helped us avoid this ambush. What now?
KASHYK: We'll have to get your passengers to the wormhole on our own. These are the schedules and routes of our patrols, along with tactical data on our shield and weapons configurations. Enough to ensure that you avoid another inspection.
JANEWAY: How long before you're missed?
KASHYK: Well, I took two weeks leave. Enough time, I hope, to find the wormhole and get your passengers safely through it and myself, as well.
TUVOK: Your data is useful, but it doesn't guarantee our success.
KASHYK: No, for that you'll need my guidance and some luck.
JANEWAY: I'll have to take this up with the Brenari. See what they think of their new benefactor. I'll let you know what they decide. I'll have to insist you remain under guard. No hard feelings.
KASHYK: No hard feelings.

[Brenari quarters]

KIR: It's unusual, but not unheard of. There have been sympathisers before. Kashyk may be telling the truth.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should just read his thoughts.
KIR: Devore soldiers undergo years of mental training to prevent that.
TUVOK: He might be telling the truth, but he also might be using us to find the wormhole.
CHAKOTAY: So what do we do, throw him in the Brig?
JANEWAY: No, we take him up on his offer to help, see how it plays out. But I want round the clock security. We need to watch his every movement. That leaves us with our next question. How do we find the wormhole?
KIR: I've given it some thought. There's a scientist named Torat. He's from a nearby system. He's rumoured to know more about the wormhole than anyone. He might help us, for a price.
JANEWAY: A price?
KIR: His species power their ships with a fluidic alloy that's difficult to find.
TUVOK: Perhaps we can replicate it.
KIR: I have some data on it's composition.
JANEWAY: See what you can do. In the meantime we'll set a course for Torat's planet, try to track him down.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Nervous?
KASHYK: Let's just say I'm not used to other people deciding my fate.
JANEWAY: Until today, you were part of a government responsible for persecuting thousands of innocent people. Why the sudden change of heart?
KASHYK: There's nothing sudden about it. I've been looking for a way to escape for years. Voyager was the perfect opportunity.
JANEWAY: How so?
KASHYK: Well, what are you suggesting? I ask a Brenari vessel for assistance? They'd throw me out an airlock. Besides, you're something of a humanitarian, Captain. I've read your database. I know all about Starfleet philosophy. Unless you left those ideals behind in the Alpha Quadrant?
JANEWAY: I certainly don't grant asylum to every person I meet. Especially ones who ransack my ship and terrorise my crew. You're asking me to believe you're someone else, and that's a leap of faith I'm not ready to make.
KASHYK: You're turning me away.
JANEWAY: No. No, I'm going to give you safe passage to the wormhole in return for your help in getting us there, but I'm also imposing some restrictions. You'll have your own quarters but limited access to Voyager's systems and your whereabouts will be monitored at all times.
KASHYK: I'm used to being surrounded by armed guards. Makes me feel secure.
JANEWAY: Only this time they answer to me. Consider them a reminder that Voyager is my ship.
KASHYK: I don't think anyone could doubt that.

Captain's log, supplemental. It's taken us nearly two days, but we've managed to locate Torat, the man who's supposedly an expert on wormholes. Unfortunately, he seems reluctant to share his expertise.

[Bridge]

(Voyager is chasing a small spaceship.)
PARIS: He's trying to evade us.
JANEWAY: Hail him again.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Torat doesn't seem too trusting. Maybe he's been through one inspection too many.
TUVOK: No response. He's deactivated his communication system.
KIM: I think I can tap into his computer, override the lockout.
JANEWAY: Do it.
(They get the bipedal alien on the viewscreen. Deep-set eyes, down-turned mouth, ears set a long way back. Possible saurian ancestors.)
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Go away!
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We have no hostile intent.
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Then why are you pursing me?
JANEWAY: We'd just like to ask you
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Federations, Imperiums. Why do you people feel such a need to align yourselves with monolithic organisations?
JANEWAY: I'd be glad to discuss that and any other philosophical issue you care to raise if you would just slow down and talk.
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Sorry, can't do that. I'm late for a very important conference.
KASHYK: This is a waste of time. Disable his ship.
JANEWAY: That's what we call overkill, Inspector. Ensign, can we transport at this range?
KIM: Absolutely. Energising.
(Torat is beamed onto the bridge.)
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard. Your reputation precedes you.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Twenty centilitres of mercurium isochromate. No impurities, and this is just a sample. We've synthesised enough to power your ship for a year.
TORAT: It doesn't matter. I've never heard of this wormhole you're looking for, or these so-called refugees.
JANEWAY: Well, they've heard of you.
TORAT: Well, no doubt. My research is famous.
JANEWAY: Think of all the stars you could research once you've infused your propulsion system with this.
TORAT: There's no point in bribing me.
KASHYK: He's right. He couldn't help us if he wanted to.
TORAT: What do you mean by that?
KASHYK: I doubt you'd know a wormhole from a dark matter inversion.
JANEWAY: Professor Kashyk is another expert I've retained to help us with this matter. I'm afraid he's not as impressed with your work as I am. In fact, he discouraged me from seeking you out.
TORAT: Professor Kashyk? Never heard of you.
KASHYK: Not surprising, considering you toil in scientific obscurity.
TORAT: Obscurity! I've discovered over sixty astronomical phenomena!
KASHYK: Not worth the sensors they were recorded on.
JANEWAY: There's no need to insult the man. Just because he doesn't know how to find an interspatial flexure.
TORAT: Interspatial flexure? Why didn't you say so in the first place? He said wormhole, a layman's term that that covers any number of phenomena. I am familiar with a certain anomaly that could be categorised as an interspatial flexure.
KASHYK: Where is it?
TORAT: Actually, a better question would be, where is it now? It's really quite interesting. The aperture of the phenomenon, which I prefer to call an intermittent cyclical vortex, is unfixed. It manifests infrequently for only brief periods of time and in varying locations. I can give you the last four locations. Perhaps you can extrapolate the next one, if you're as accomplished a scientist as you claim to be.

[Mess hall]

(Tchaikovsky's 4th Symphony, 2nd movement, plays in the background.)
JANEWAY: Think.
KASHYK: I'm thinking.
JANEWAY: Think harder. Four wormhole appearances less than twenty light years apart. There's no pattern.
KASHYK: Did you apply a fractal coefficient?
JANEWAY: Didn't work.
KASHYK: Neutrino flux parameters? Statistical algorithms?
JANEWAY: Every one I could find. This wormhole defies analysis. Maybe Torat was right. We're just out of our league.
KASHYK: It's not like you to give up. Think harder.
JANEWAY: How do you predict a random occurrence?
KASHYK: You follow your instincts. Captain?
JANEWAY: Counterpoint. It's in all great music. Parallel melodies playing against one another. We've been looking at the obvious, frequency, location, timing, but each of those parameters could have a counterpoint in subspace.
KASHYK: If we could run an algorithm based on subspace harmonics, it might reveal our pattern.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a subspatial transkinetic analysis on the wormhole data.
COMPUTER: Analysis in progress.
JANEWAY: This'll take a minute.
KASHYK: I'm going to miss this coffee of yours.
JANEWAY: Well, I will give you the recipe.
KASHYK: Thank you.
JANEWAY: You don't sound too happy about leaving.
KASHYK: The Brenari aren't about to embrace a former Inspector. I'll be feared, hated for what I represent.
JANEWAY: Anxiety doesn't become you, Inspector. Try to relax a little.
KASHYK: I suppose you liked me better in uniform.
JANEWAY: I haven't decided whether I like you at all.
(He looks at a series of coloured lights visible through the window.)
KASHYK: We call them the Kolyan Kolyar. Infinite Spirals.
JANEWAY: Beautiful.
KASHYK: As a boy, I spent years gazing at these lights. This is the last time I'll ever see them.
JANEWAY: We have something similar back on Earth. The Aurora Borealis.
KASHYK: Which you too may never see again. I suppose we're both refugees, in a way.
JANEWAY: I'm still counting on getting this ship home.
KASHYK: Are you sure you'll be welcome when you do? I came across something else in your database. The Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: The Federation's cardinal protocol.
KASHYK: It seems you violated it when you rescued these telepaths.
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say I usually go with my instincts and sort it out later at the Board of Inquiry. Those Admirals and I were on a first name basis, you know. You're risking a lot, too. Why?
KASHYK: Three months ago my teams were inspecting a plasma refining vessel. We found a family of telepaths hiding in one of the extraction tanks. There was a child, very young. She'd been inside it for days, barely able to breathe. When I lifted her out and set her down on the deck, she thanked me. I sent her to a relocation centre with the others, knowing full well what would happen to her. After that, I could think of nothing else, and when I couldn't stand it any longer. You're my deliverance, Captain.
COMPUTER: Analysis complete.
JANEWAY: It worked. It looks like it'll appear in about three days, less than eight light years from here.
KASHYK: The Tehara system.
JANEWAY: Is that a problem?
KASHYK: There's an automated sensor array between here and Tehara.
JANEWAY: Can we go around it?
KASHYK: We'd never make it in time. We'll have to find a way to avoid detection.
JANEWAY: Let's do it in the morning. We've done enough for tonight. Are you saying goodbye? There will be other spirals.
KASHYK: They've just never looked quite so beautiful before. Could be the company I'm keeping.
JANEWAY: Or the polarisation axis of the windows.
KASHYK: That must be it.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: How often does this array emit a scanning pulse?
KASHYK: Every forty seconds.
JANEWAY: Range?
KASHYK: Ten light years. The pulse is designed to track warp fields and impulse signatures. If we lower our power output to beneath it's detection threshold
JANEWAY: We could drift past undetected.
KASHYK: It's worth a try.
(They arrive at Kashyk's quarters.)
JANEWAY: Well, good night.
KASHYK: Captain, why don't you join me? I've been looking forward to trying your replicator. Well, I'm sure that I can come up with something to toast the evening. We've accomplished quite a bit today.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid that won't be possible. I had your replicator taken offline.
KASHYK: In case I decided to replicate a weapon.
JANEWAY: A safety precaution. You understand.
KASHYK: Better than anyone.
JANEWAY: Sleep well.
KASHYK: And you.
(The door closes. Janeway speaks to the guard, who is standing at attention.)
JANEWAY: As you were.

[Bridge]

(At the sensor array.)
TUVOK: Fifteen seconds.
KASHYK: Our power output is below the detection threshold.
TUVOK: Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two.
(The pulse passes through Voyager.)
KASHYK: We weren't detected.
PARIS: Ten minutes and we'll be out of range.
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to bridge, we've got a problem.

[Engineering]

TORRES: That pulse triggered a variance in the antimatter stream. It's not much, but it'll light us up like a beacon when the next pulse hits.
JANEWAY [OC]: Options.
TORRES: I can't correct it in time, so that leaves shutting down the core.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: The array has released another pulse.
JANEWAY: Time.
TUVOK: Twenty eight seconds.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Get down to the plasma injectors. Grab a tricorder and monitor the antimatter flow.
VORIK: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES [OC]: Almost

[Engineering]

TORRES: There, Captain. I'm having a problem with the injectors.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Fifteen seconds. Ten seconds. Four, three two.  
KASHYK: We've been detected. The array's transmitting an alert.
JANEWAY: Can we block it?
TUVOK: Negative.
JANEWAY: Stand down grey mode. B'Elanna, fire up the core. We're getting out of here.
KASHYK: Warships will be on their way, but we can still reach the wormhole.
JANEWAY: If we can find it. Tom, how long to the Tehara system?
PARIS: Eleven hours at maximum warp.
KIM: Engines are back online.
JANEWAY: Engage.

[Briefing room]

SEVEN: Using the model you developed, we were able to narrow down the location of the wormhole's next appearance to a radius of two hundred thousand kilometres.
KIR: We can't determine its exact position until we reach the system, but we know it will open in roughly six hours.
SEVEN: It will remain open for two minutes at most.
TUVOK: I've devised a new shield modulation which should protect us against their weapons.
KASHYK: You're not planning to fight your way to the wormhole?
JANEWAY: If I have to.
PARIS [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS [OC]: Long range sensors have picked up two Devore warships heading right for us.
TUVOK: Time to intercept.
PARIS [OC]: Six hours.
JANEWAY: Take the bridge. I'll be in Engineering. Kashyk.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: First we'll check those shield modifications, then we'll see if we can adjust our phasers to penetrate the Devore shields. If torpedoes don't work I want an alternative.
KASHYK: Captain, we have to talk. But not here.

[Janeway's quarters]

KASHYK: I'm going back, to rejoin the warships. It's the only way I can guarantee your safety.
JANEWAY: Kashyk.
KASHYK: I'm still a ranking officer. I can take command of the inspection teams, make sure the refugees aren't discovered.
JANEWAY: You said yourself they're suspicious. Return now and you risk being caught.
KASHYK: I can keep them off track long enough to get you through that wormhole.
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous.
KASHYK: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: You asked for safe passage and I agreed, under the condition that you follow my orders.
KASHYK: You may stand a chance against one of our warships, but not against two. If I stay your best chance of escape will be lost.
JANEWAY: I could confine you to quarters. I was planning on asking you to stay with us once we got through the wormhole. I wouldn't mind having someone around who appreciates a bit of Tchaikovsky now and then.
KASHYK: Generous but, something tells me I wouldn't fit in any better on Voyager.
JANEWAY: Well, you wouldn't be the first wayward soul we've folded into our ranks. Your shuttle will be ready for launch within the hour.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: Our course will put us just outside the Teharan system by the time the warships arrive.
JANEWAY: Your inspection teams have to be off Voyager before that wormhole opens.
KASHYK: Believe me, it will be the quickest inspection on record.
TUVOK: I'll be on the bridge. Your efforts have been greatly appreciated.
KASHYK: My pleasure.
TUVOK: Live long and prosper.
KASHYK: Thank you.

[Shuttle bay]

KASHYK: Begin pre-ignition sequence.
(His shuttle starts to power up.)
JANEWAY: I've made one adjustment to your plan. After the inspection, we're going to wait at the wormhole for as long as we can. Until it begins to collapse.
KASHYK: I may not be able to join you this time.
JANEWAY: Try.
(Kashyk kisses Janeway, then she kisses him back. He gets into his shuttle and leaves.)

[Bridge]

(Devore warships arrive at Voyager's position.)
CHAKOTAY: They're assuming a tactical formation. Shields?
JANEWAY: No. We follow protocol. Bridge to transporter room.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY [OC]: Status?
KIM: Ready, Captain. Pattern cohesion stable.

[Cargo Bay one]

JANEWAY [OC]: Cargo bay one?
SEVEN: Clear.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Gaharay vessel, prepare to be
JANEWAY: We've been through three inspections. Please explain why another is necessary.
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Crew members are instructed to step away from their stations. Side arms and scanning equipment are to be set aside. Deviation from this or any other inspection protocols will not be tolerated.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to be boarded by Devore inspections teams. Give them your usual warm welcome.
CHAKOTAY: Devore soldiers have materialised on decks fifteen, twelve, eight, four.
JANEWAY: And one.
KASHYK: Captain Janeway, report to your Ready room.

[Ready room]

(Tchaikovsky's 4th Symphony, 2nd movement, again.)
KASHYK: Captain. Good to see you again.
JANEWAY: Likewise.
KASHYK: Tchaikovsky. Of all the selections in your database, this remains my favourite.
JANEWAY: Mine, too.
KASHYK: I'm afraid Prax isn't impressed. He's solely concerned with his work, aren't you, Prax?
PRAX: As you say, sir.
KASHYK: Yes, he's curious why you entered this sector. You're aware it's restricted.
JANEWAY: We were planning to study a supernova remnant not far from here.
KASHYK: You strayed a full light year from your course in order to observe an astronomical phenomenon?
JANEWAY: We're explorers.
KASHYK: Yes, I remember. I also remember warning you about going where you don't belong.
JANEWAY: Exploring can sometimes be hard to resist, Inspector.
KASHYK: Well, it's a romantic notion, Captain, but one I can't allow you to indulge. I'm afraid I'll have to ask you to leave our space immediately. Prax, why don't you check on our teams while I reiterate our protocols for Captain Janeway.
(Prax leaves.)
JANEWAY: Do they suspect anything?
KASHYK: Not yet, but our warships have been monitoring Voyager's movements for the past few days, and mine as well. I don't think we have much time. The Brenari?
JANEWAY: They're in transporter suspension.
KASHYK: And the wormhole?
JANEWAY: We've found it. It's twenty thousand kilometres off our port bow. We've determined that a photon torpedo properly calibrated will force open the threshold long enough for Voyager to get through.
KASHYK: Congratulations, Captain. For a while, I wasn't sure if even you could find it. Prax!
(Prax enters.)
KASHYK: Go to Cargo Bay one. You'll find the transporter patterns for more than a dozen telepaths. Rematerialise them.
PRAX: Yes, sir.
JANEWAY: Impressive. You gave a masterful performance.
KASHYK: I'm the one who's impressed, with your selflessness, your humanity. It made all this so much easier.
JANEWAY: Oh, but what about your selflessness? That touching story about the little girl. Was that a fabrication, too?
KASHYK: Oh, that incident was real. What I didn't tell you was that after wrestling with my ethics, I realised that I'd done the right thing in order to protect my people from a very real threat. Please. I insist.

[Bridge]

(Janeway is escorted onto the bridge at gunpoint. There are only Devore here.)
KASHYK: Captain.
(Janeway takes Chakotay's chair, and he takes hers.)
KASHYK: Access their forward sensor array. You should find neutrino emissions at roughly twenty thousand kilometres off the port bow. On screen. Target two photon torpedoes. When the first one detonates, the wormhole will open. Use the second one to destabilise its subspace matrix. That will destroy it. Prax, report!

[Cargo Bay one]

PRAX: I've isolated the bio-patterns.

[Bridge]

KASHYK: Fire! It should have detonated. Those aren't neutrino emissions, they're antimatter residue signatures. There's no wormhole here. You created false readings.
JANEWAY: That is the theme for this evening, isn't it?
KASHYK: Prax, do you have the telepaths?

[Cargo Bay one]

PRAX: I have cargo containers. (He opens one.)
PRAX: Filled with vegetables.

[Bridge]

KASHYK: Return to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Computer, change music selection. Mahler's Symphony Number One, Second Movement. Maybe this will help you relax.
DEVORE [OC]: Inspector, we have completed our inventory of the vessel. Two of their shuttlecraft are missing.
KASHYK: They couldn't have gone far. Why didn't they appear on our long range scans? Of course! Adjust their scanners to compensate for refractive shielding.
JANEWAY: Well, you gave us the specifications. Seemed a shame to waste them.
DEVORE [OC]: We've located the two shuttlecraft. Range, twenty million kilometres.
KASHYK: Order our ships to pursue. Maximum speed!

[Shuttlecraft]

KIR: We're approaching the coordinates. I'm firing the torpedo.
(The wormhole opens. They fly inside and it closes again.)
WOMAN: Kir, we're safe.

[Bridge]

PRAX: The shuttles have disappeared from sensors. We've scanned for a wormhole. If there was one, it's gone. I'll order Janeway and her crew removed. We'll confiscate the vessel, deliver them to the nearest detention centre.
KASHYK: You're dismissed.
PRAX: Imperative twelve, codicil six requires
KASHYK: To hell with protocol, Prax! Do you think either of us will benefit from having this failure on our records? As far as you're concerned, this incident never occurred. Make sure your teams share that understanding.
(Prax and the other Devore leave.)
KASHYK: Well played, Captain. It seems I never did earn your trust.
JANEWAY: I had to take a few precautions. You understand.
KASHYK: Better than anyone.
JANEWAY: I never lied to you. My offer to take you with us was genuine, and it would still stand if you'd kept your part of the bargain.
KASHYK: For what it's worth, you made a tempting offer. The bridge is yours.


S5 E11
Latent Image
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 20 January 1999

[Sickbay]
(The Doctor is taking portrait photographs of the crew with his holo-imager. He has even put it on a tripod.)
EMH: (to Neelix) Turn ninety degrees to the left, please. (to Torres) Turn ninety degrees to the left, please. (to Paris) Turn ninety degrees to the right, please. (to Ensign Renlay Sharr) About face. (to Naomi) Try to hold still, please. 
NAOMI: Is it going to hurt?
EMH: Of course not. A few photons never hurt anybody.
NAOMI: We didn't do this last year.
EMH: That's because last year I didn't realise what an exciting tool my holo-imager could be in the pursuit of medical knowledge.
NAOMI: Is something wrong with me?
EMH: Your health is excellent. This is just another way to make sure that it stays excellent.
NAOMI: Does my mother have to do this?
EMH: Your mother and everybody else on board. I made it part of the annual check-up. It's quite handy, really. By attuning the resonance spectrum along the subspace band I can take an image of my patients all the way down to the subatomic level.
NAOMI: Subatomic level? I thought you said this wasn't going to hurt.
EMH: I did, and it won't.
(The EMH kneels down in front of the holo-imager.)
EMH: There. See? Nothing to it.
NAOMI: Try to hold still, please.
EMH: Are you making fun of me?
NAOMI: No.
(A little later.)
EMH: It'll only take a second to download your images into the medical database, if you'd like to stay for a moment and see what you look like from the inside out.
KIM: Why not?
EMH: Here we go. (First Kim's skeleton appears, then his internal organs, blood vessels, muscles, skin and uniform.)
KIM: Handsome fellow.
EMH: There's some scar tissue along the base of your lower skull. Computer, isolate the occipital plexus, magnification five hundred. There. Scarring along the dura mater.
KIM: From what?
EMH: An operation. Computer, isolate the cranial meninges, magnification one hundred. More scarring. No doubt about it. Somebody performed neurosurgery. And that somebody was me.These microlinear incisions are a dead giveaway. I developed that procedure myself.
KIM: I don't understand. I don't remember having an operation.
EMH: I'm a little confused as well, because I don't remember performing it.

[Ready room]

(The doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Who is it?
EMH [OC]: The Doctor.
JANEWAY: Come in.
EMH: I've finished giving the crew their annual physicals, but as usual the Captain was a no-show.
JANEWAY: Let's get it over with.
EMH: Specific complaints?
JANEWAY: None. How's the crew?
EMH: In good health, for the most part. I found a nascent alien retrovirus bouncing between personnel on decks ten and eleven, but managed to nip it in the bud. And there's been a little more wear and tear on Seven of Nine's cranial infrastructure. I'm going to double her maintenance routine. Cytometabolism is normal. Endocrine functions functioning.
JANEWAY: That's a relief.
EMH: I'd like you to drop by Sickbay at your earliest convenience. I've adjusted my holo-imager for deep body scans. You're the only member of the crew who hasn't posed for me yet.
JANEWAY: Maybe next week.
EMH: It's a fine instrument, really. I've already discovered something of a mystery with it. Apparently, I performed a complex neurosurgery on Harry Kim. According to the isotope decay around the scars, it was eighteen months ago.
JANEWAY: I don't remember that.
EMH: Neither do I, and neither does the patient. I checked my medical entries for that period. There's no mention of surgery.
JANEWAY: Could your holo-imager have misinterpreted the scans?
EMH: Possibly. The computer is double-checking the data now. I'd also like to run a complete diagnostic on my own programme and have a look at my memory files.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna and Harry are both busy with the plasma relay repairs. Let's make sure you're next up on the list. Thank you, Doctor.

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: Hello, Seven.
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: I'm here to ask you a favour.
SEVEN: Another time.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN I am recalibrating the deflector dish. Come back tomorrow. I should be finished by then.
EMH: Looks like I'm two for two. Oh, the Captain's acting like she's allergic to me, and now my prized pupil won't even give me the time of day.
SEVEN: State your request.
EMH: A little mystery has cropped up. Evidence that I performed surgery on Ensign Kim a year and a half ago, before you came aboard. The trouble is, I don't remember it. I wanted you to help me run a self-diagnostic.
SEVEN: I will assist you, in one hour.
EMH: Fair enough.

[Sickbay]

(An hour later.)
SEVEN: Computer, locate the Emergency Medical Hologram.
COMPUTER: The EMH is inactive.
SEVEN: Activate him.
(The EMH is activated in his office.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: I'm here to assist you, as I agreed. I've run a preliminary diagnostic of your programme. Your suspicions were correct.
EMH: I never asked you to run a diagnostic. Suspicions? What are you talking about?
SEVEN: You don't recall speaking to me in the Astrometrics lab one hour ago.
EMH: No. The last I remember, I was completing the yearly physicals.
SEVEN: You mentioned a neurosurgery you performed on Ensign Kim eighteen months ago.
EMH: Computer, locate the holoscans I took of Ensign Kim this morning. Any operation would show
COMPUTER: Unavailable. That file has been deleted.
EMH: Let's have a look at my programme.
SEVEN: A deletion in your short term memory buffer.
EMH: Our chat in Astrometrics never got filed. That's why I can't remember it. If I were given to paranoia, I'd say someone is trying to keep me from finding out what happened eighteen months ago. My photo album.
SEVEN: Doctor?
EMH: I was quite a shutterbug back then. Not a day went by when I didn't record an image for posterity. Let's have a walk down memory lane. Meet me on holodeck two.

[Holodeck two]

EMH: Computer, display all holo-images taken on Stardate 50979
COMPUTER: Those holo-images have been deleted.
EMH: Deleted? By whom?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
SEVEN: I'm detecting residual photons in the holo-buffer. It may be possible to partially reconstruct the images.
EMH: Try.
SEVEN: I've restored five images. They are degraded but intact.
EMH: Let's see them.
(A fuzzy image of someone holding a birthday cake.)
EMH: The mess hall.
SEVEN: Do you remember this?
EMH: No. Who is that? The Ensign. It seems to be her birthday.
SEVEN: I've never seen her before.
(Next, a threesome in a shuttlecraft.)
EMH: The Ensign again. I never went on a shuttle mission with Harry Kim, and certainly not with her. And again.
(The next shot is of an alien spacecraft ahead of the shuttlecraft, and finally of an armed alien inside the shuttle.)

[Computer control room]

SEVEN: I've isolated your memory files from stardate 50979.
EMH: They weren't deleted?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Then why can't I remember them?
SEVEN: The programme was rewritten to deny you access to those memories. I'm trying to restore them.

[Memory - Mess hall]

(A toast.)
JANEWAY: Hear, hear.
ALL: Hear, hear.
EMH: Say cheese.
ALL: Cheese.

[Computer control room]

SEVEN: What happened?
EMH: I was in the mess hall.
SEVEN: The files are difficult to localise. The memories will be out of sequence.

[Memory - shuttlecraft]

KIM: What was that?
(The mystery Ensign speaks.)
JETAL: Our sensors are dead.

[Memory - Mess hall]

KIM: Make a wish.

[Holodeck lab]

EMH: They've stopped.
SEVEN: One moment.

[Memory - Mess hall]

(First, the EMH with blood on his hands, then -)
KIM Make a wish. (The alien beams into the shuttle, and the EMH drops his holo-imager, then back to the surprise party.)
JETAL: I'm going to kill you.
EMH: Ensign, I haven't seen you in months.
JETAL: Price I pay for staying in good health, I guess.

[Memory - Sickbay]

(Treating Jetel for her injuries.)
PARIS: Acetylcholine, twenty five microlitres. It's not helping. I'm getting massive synaptic failure.
EMH: That doesn't make any sense.

[Memory - shuttlecraft]

(Taking the group shot.)
KIM: This is the last one.
EMH: Say cheese.
ALL: Cheese.
(Then the alien shooting them with his energy weapon.)

[Computer control room]

EMH: Call the Captain.

[Briefing room]

(The image of the alien is on the wall monitor.)
JANEWAY: I don't recognise this species. Seven?
SEVEN: They are unknown to the Borg.
TUVOK: Perhaps these images have been manipulated.
EMH: No, they're real. The image buffer would have shown signs of tampering. I have a different theory. I believe there was an attack on Voyager by this species and all our memories of the event were erased. This is the unknown crewman I told you about. Ensign Jetal. The question is, who was she? An alien intruder posing as a Starfleet Ensign? Of course, it's impossible to tell from a photograph, but one thing is certain. We are in immediate danger.
TUVOK: How so?
EMH: Only a few hours ago, as I was beginning this investigation, someone shut down my programme and eliminated all my memories of the last twenty four hours.
SEVEN: An intruder may be on board.
JANEWAY: Run a deck by deck security sweep.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Report to the Astrometrics lab and recalibrate the sensors. See if you can detect any cloaked vessels nearby.
EMH: I'll review the medical records of the crew. Ensign Kim may not have been the only one who was injured during the attack.
JANEWAY: No, I want you to deactivate yourself for now. We'll erect a security field around the main computer and encrypt all pathways leading to your programme. If someone does try to tamper with you again, I want to be ready.
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: It's for your own safety, Doctor. Thank you for bringing this to my attention.
EMH: You will keep me informed?
JANEWAY: Absolutely. Dismissed.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Computer, transfer my programme from the mobile emitter to the Sickbay systems.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
EMH: Computer, duplicate all of my memory files recorded within the last forty eight hours. 

[Sickbay]

COMPUTER: Duplication complete.
EMH: Now, I'm going offline. If my programme is altered without my authorisation, reactivate me and restore the duplicate memory files. Interface with the holo-imaging device. If anybody enters this room, commence imaging in five second intervals.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH.
(Later, someone enters Sickbay and accesses the EMH memory core. The holo-imager activates as files are deleted. The person leaves and the EMH is reactivated.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Hello?
COMPUTER: Restoring memory files. Restoration complete.
(The EMH goes to the holo-imager and projects the image of his mystery visitor. It is Captain Janeway.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Believe me, I was there.
CHAKOTAY: So was I.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay is correct.
JANEWAY: Oh? And how would you know?
TUVOK: In my youth, I studied many forms of martial art, including the Sumo of Earth. I have followed the sport ever since.
(The EMH enters.)
JANEWAY: It was the 77th Emperor's Cup. Takashi forced Kar-pek out of the circle in less than three seconds. I had a fifth row seat.
CHAKOTAY: Then you must have been ordering sake, because Takashi's knee broke the sand and the referee gave the match to Kar-pek.
TUVOK: Exactly.
JANEWAY: If this is another house call, it'll have to wait. As you can see, I've got a mutiny on my hands.
EMH: A mutiny? I suppose that's better than a conspiracy.
SEVEN: Doctor?
EMH: Tell her, Captain. Describe how you tampered with my programme. How it was you all along.
TUVOK: Perhaps you should accompany me to Sickbay, Doctor.
EMH: Et tu, Tuvok? You're conspiring against me, all of you. Why?
JANEWAY: In my ready room.

[Ready room]

EMH: You've been manipulating my programme. Don't deny it.
JANEWAY: I don't intend to.
EMH: But, the alien ship, the intruder? Did that attack actually happen?
JANEWAY: Yes. You were damaged during the incident.
EMH: Damaged?
JANEWAY: It caused a conflict in your programming that couldn't be resolved.
EMH: What kind of conflict?
JANEWAY: I had no choice but to deny you access to your memories of those events.
EMH: What kind of conflict?
JANEWAY: If I told you that, I might set the whole thing in motion again.
EMH: This conflict in my programming.
JANEWAY: Yes.
EMH: That's not good enough.
JANEWAY: It'll have to be.
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I've made a command decision for your own benefit and the welfare of this entire crew. I'm not willing to debate it.
EMH: How would you like it if I operated on you without your consent or without your knowledge?
JANEWAY: If the operation saved my life? I could live with it.
EMH: I don't believe you. You'd feel as violated as I do right now.
JANEWAY: Whether you believe me or not is beside the point. A year and a half ago the only solution was to rewrite your programme. I have to perform that same procedure now.
EMH: That isn't fair.
JANEWAY: You're malfunctioning, and you need to be repaired. Return to Sickbay and wait for my orders.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Doctor.
EMH: What's happening? What are you doing?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres requires a copy of your most recent memory files, including the backups.
EMH: You're going to rewrite my programme.
CHAKOTAY: The Captain thinks it's for the best. I'm sorry. B'Elanna and Seven are setting up the procedure right now. In the meantime, you're to brief Mister Paris about any experiments you're performing, any tests.
PARIS: I'll be filling in while your programme's offline.
(Chakotay leaves.)
PARIS: Okay, so, you're running some kind of cell analysis?
EMH: Yes.
PARIS: Well, lets take a look.
EMH: What happened eighteen months ago?
PARIS: Doc.
EMH: Why won't the Captain tell me?
PARIS: She has her reasons.
EMH: And you agree with her.
PARIS: I was there and yes, I agree with her.

[Janeway's quarters]

(Janeway is reading a book whilst music plays quietly. The doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Are you having a little trouble regenerating?
SEVEN: My alcove is functioning properly. I am having trouble with the nature of individuality.
JANEWAY: There's a time and a place for philosophical discussion. Two in the morning in my quarters isn't one of them. But I'll tell you what. Meet me in the mess hall tomorrow.
SEVEN: Tomorrow will be too late. We'll have already rewritten the Doctor's programme by then.
JANEWAY: And violated his rights as an individual.
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: If you've come to act as my conscience, you're a little late. I considered these issues eighteen months ago, as I did again this morning. I came to the same conclusion.
SEVEN: Your conclusion is wrong.
JANEWAY: Coffee, black. (she takes a sip.) Lukewarm. Now I've told that replicator a dozen times about the temperature of my coffee. It just doesn't seem to want to listen. Almost as if it's got a mind of its own. But it doesn't. A replicator operates through a series of electronic pathways that allow it to receive instructions and take appropriate action, and there you go. A cup of coffee, a bowl of soup, a plasma conduit, whatever we tell it to do. As difficult as it is to accept, the Doctor is more like that replicator than he is like us.
SEVEN: He would disagree.
JANEWAY: I'm sure he would, but I can't let that change my decision. I learned that the hard way when his programme almost self-destructed. I won't take that risk again.
SEVEN: The risk isn't yours to take.
JANEWAY: If one of my crew chose to put a phaser to his own head, should I let him?
SEVEN: It would depend on the situation.
JANEWAY: It always depends on the situation, Seven, but we can debate philosophy another time.
SEVEN: When you separated me from the Collective, I was an unknown risk to your crew, yet you kept me on board. You allowed me to evolve into an individual.
JANEWAY: You're a human being. He's a hologram.
SEVEN: And you allowed that hologram to evolve as well, to exceed his original programming. And yet now you choose to abandon him.
JANEWAY: Objection noted. Good night.
SEVEN: It is unsettling. You say that I am a human being and yet I am also Borg. Part of me not unlike your replicator. Not unlike the Doctor. Will you one day choose to abandon me as well? I have always looked to you as my example, my guide to humanity. Perhaps I've been mistaken. Good night.

[Medical lab]

(The EMH comes out of his office to meet Torres and Janeway.)
JANEWAY: I'd like to think I made my decision eighteen months ago for all the right reasons. The truth is, my own biases about what you are had just as much to do with it. At the very least, you deserve to know exactly what happened. If you're willing.
EMH: I'm ready.
(They do the procedure in the Computer Control room.)

[Memories - Mess hall]

(The room is dark.)
PARIS: You're standing on my foot.
EMH: I am not.
TORRES: Shush.
(Neelix and Jetal enter.)
NEELIX: If you ask me, they should have just locked the turbolift and thrown away.
JETAL: Neelix, the power's down. Jetal to Torres.
TORRES: Er, go ahead, Ensign. Or should I say.
(The lights come on.)
ALL: Surprise!  
(Tuvok carries in the blue cake.)
JETAL: I'm going to kill you.
 (Later.)
CHAKOTAY: I want you to go along on a few of the shuttle surveys. If I can talk you into it.
EMH: Another away mission? Certainly! I'm flattered.
KIM: I guess the birthday girl and I get the pleasure of your company, Doc.
CHAKOTAY: You launch at nineteen hundred hours, shuttlebay one. 
JETAL: Hello, Doctor.
EMH: Ensign Jetal. I haven't seen you in months.
JETAL: The price I pay for staying in good health.
EMH: So, keeping busy down on deck eleven?
JETAL: Too busy. We're modifying one of the shuttles, making it more manoeuvrable and more cool.
EMH: I see you've been working with Mister Paris. My condolences.

[Memories - Shuttlecraft]

KIM: I thought I picked up a slight distortion in subspace, but it's not there any more.
JETAL: Nothing on long range sensors but a few hydrogen atoms.
KIM: Candid shot?
EMH: Try to look natural.
JETAL: Oh, at least it's my good side.
EMH: Let's get one of the group.
(The EMH stands the holo-imager on a rear seat and sets the self-timer.)
KIM: This is the last one.
EMH: Say cheese.
BOTH: Cheese.
JETAL: Doctor, I have a shuttle to fly.
EMH: Ah, yes.
(Whumph!)
KIM: What was that?
JETAL: Our sensors are dead.
KIM: Power's being drained. Shields and weapons are offline.
EMH: How?
(He snaps an image of the ship attacking them. Then they are boarded. Another Whumph! makes him drop the holo-imager, and as it lands it snaps the alien before it shoots them.
The EMH is unaffected, and he dashes to the controls. The alien is beamed away.)
EMH: Doctor to Voyager, mayday. We're under attack. I've got wounded. Mayday!
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged, Doctor. Set navigational controls to return to Voyager.
EMH: Commander, can you hear me?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Doctor, please respond.
(The EMH gets Jetal's blood on his hands.)
EMH: Hello? Computer, engage autonavigation. Lay in a course for Voyager, full impulse. 
KIM: Doctor.
EMH: Stay calm. That weapon carried quite a punch.
KIM: Is she okay?
EMH: She's unconscious.
KIM: Voyager?
EMH: We've lost contact. I sent that alien back to his ship. You think they'd be grateful.
KIM: You should have beamed him into space.
EMH: I'm not in the business of killing people, Ensign. Synaptic shock? But there was no neural damage. Mister Kim! I don't understand. No.
(The attack continues until Voyager arrives.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Doctor, stand by for transport.
EMH: Beam us directly to Sickbay.

[Memories - Sickbay]

EMH: Prepare these people for surgery.
PARIS: Here. What happened?
EMH: We were fired on. There's something wrong with their nervous systems. We've got to stabilise their synapses. Get me a choline compound.
PARIS: Which choline compound?
EMH: It doesn't matter. Just make sure it's a pure base. Her spinal cord's deteriorating. (He checks Kim.) Same rate of collapse.
PARIS: Acetylcholine, twenty five microlitres. It's not helping. I'm reading massive synaptic failure.
EMH: This doesn't make any sense.
PARIS: Paris to Engineering. Transfer all available power to Sickbay.
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged.
EMH: Some kind of plasmic energy is arcing between their neural membranes. That weapon, it was designed to do this.
PARIS: To leave a residual charge in the victim's body?
EMH: An energy pulse that remains in the neural membranes, working its way up the spinal cord to the brain. They'll be dead in minutes if we don't find a way to stop it. I've got to protect their brain functions.
PARIS: His neocortex is failing.
EMH: A spinal shunt. I'll isolate the spinal cord from the brain stem until I can repair the cellular damage. But I don't have time to perform the procedure on both of them.
PARIS: Then talk me through it. We'll do them together.
EMH: It's too complex.
PARIS: Then make a choice, before we lose them both!
(The EMH choses Kim.)
EMH: Subdermal scalpel. Bio-electric field generator.
PARIS: His vital signs are stabilising. It's working.
EMH: Cellular regenerator. His neural membranes are re-establishing themselves. Good. (The biobed behind them signals Jetal's death.)

[Computer Control room]

EMH: The attack, how did it end? Were there more casualties?
JANEWAY: We exchanged fire for another few minutes, then the aliens withdrew. There was only one casualty. Ensign Jetal.
EMH: I don't mean to seem unfeeling, but I'm programmed to accept the loss of a patient with professional detachment.

[Memories - Bridge]

JANEWAY: We are assembled here today to pay final respects to our honoured dead, Ensign Ahni Jetal. Her intelligence and her charm have made our long journey home seem not quite so long. As she continues on a journey of her own, we will keep her in our hearts and in our memories.
(Tuvok fires Jetal's torpedo casing coffin into space.)

[Memories - Mess hall]

EMH: We're low on synthetic antigens, and I'm sorry to report many of the medicinal plants you've collected over the past several months were destroyed as well.
NEELIX: I have some herbs in storage you might be able to use.
EMH: Been holding out on me?
NEELIX: No, I was keeping them around just in case.
EMH: Good planning.
NEELIX: As for the antigens, I'll have to start replicating them in batches. Which do you want first?
EMH: Decisions, decisions. How do you make a decision, Mister Neelix? In general, I mean.
NEELIX: I guess I weigh the alternatives and try to decide which is best.
(The EMH picks up two fruit. One red, one yellow.)
EMH: Which is best. How do you determine that?
NEELIX: I never thought about it, really.
EMH: Well, maybe you should. Think about it, I mean.
NEELIX: I guess every situation is a little different.
EMH: For me, it's rather simple. While I'm faced with a decision, my programme calculates the variables, and I take action. For example, what could be simpler than a triage situation in Sickbay? Two patients, for example, both injured, for example, both in imminent danger of dying. Calculate the variables. My programme needs to ascertain which patient has the greater chance of survival, and that's the one I treat.
(He throws the red fruit across the room.)
EMH: Simple. But, what if they have an equal chance of survival? What then? Hmm? Flip a coin? Pick a card?
NEELIX: Doctor.
EMH: Oh, I'm all right. I'm a hologram. I don't get injured, I don't feel pain, I don't die. Unlike some people I could tell you about. For example, two patients. Both injured, both in imminent danger of. Don't touch me! I'm a hologram. Photonic energy. Don't waste your time.
NEELIX: Neelix to Security. Send a team to the Mess hall, please.
EMH: A whole team, Mister Neelix? Throwing a little party, are we? Why, I attended a party just recently. A birthday party for a very nice young woman. I made a decision there, too. Several of them, in fact. When I came through the door, do I turn right or do I turn left? As I recall, I decided on the latter. Then, what should I see before me but the hors d'oeuvre tray, and another decision. Do I take a canapé or refuse? Oh, that's an easy one. I'm a hologram. I don't eat.
(Tuvok and security arrive.)
NEELIX: Something's wrong with him.
EMH: Don't you know it's rude to refer to somebody in the third person. You had a choice, Mister Neelix. Should I do something rude or not do something rude?
TUVOK: Doctor, we must return to Sickbay.
EMH: Why should I? What if I don't want to return to Sickbay? What if I decide not to return to Sickbay? No, I don't choose this. Leave me alone! Let me go! Why did she have to die? Why did I kill her? Why did I decide to kill her? Why? Somebody tell me why!

[Computer control room]

JANEWAY: It was downhill from there. You developed a feedback loop between your ethical and cognitive subroutines. You were having the same thoughts over and over again. We couldn't stop it.    
TORRES: Our only option was to erase your memories of those events.
EMH: You were right. I didn't deserve to keep those memories, not after what I did.
JANEWAY: You were performing your duty.
EMH: Two patients, which do I kill?
JANEWAY: Doctor.    
EMH: Doctor? Hardly! A doctor retains his objectivity. I didn't do that, did I? Two patients, equal chances of survival and I chose the one I was closer to? I chose my friend? That's not in my programming! That's not what I was designed to do! Go ahead! Reprogramme me! I'll lend you a hand! Let's start with this very day, this hour, this second!
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
TORRES: Here we go again. Captain?
JANEWAY: It's as though there's a battle being fought inside him, between his original programming and what he's become. Our solution was to end that battle. What if we were wrong?
TORRES: We've seen what happens to him. In fact, we've seen it twice.
JANEWAY: Still, we allowed him to evolve, and at the first sign of trouble? We gave him a soul, B'Elanna. Do we have the right to take it away now?
TORRES: We gave him personality subroutines. I'd hardly call that a soul.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Janeway brings Seven out of regeneration.)
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm having trouble with the nature of individuality.
SEVEN: You require a philosophical discussion?
JANEWAY: There's a time and a place for it. This is one of them. After I freed you from the Collective, you were transformed. It's been a difficult process. Was it worth it?
SEVEN: I had no choice.
JANEWAY; That's not what I asked you.
SEVEN: If I could change what happened, erase what you did to me, would I? No.

Captain's log, supplemental. Our Doctor is now our patient. It's been two weeks since I've ordered a round the clock vigil. A crew member has stayed with him at all times, offering a sounding board and a familiar presence while he struggles to understand his memories and thoughts. The chance of recovery? Uncertain.

[Holodeck]

EMH: The more I think about it, the more I realise there's nothing I could've done differently.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: The primordial atom burst, sending out its radiation, setting everything in motion. One particle collides with another, gases expand, planets contract, and before you know it we've got starships and holodecks and chicken soup. In fact, you can't help but have starships and holodecks and chicken soup, because it was all determined twenty billion years ago!  
(Tuvok enters during this outburst.)
TUVOK: There is a certain logic to your logic. Progress?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure if he's making any sense of this experience, or if his programme's just running in circles.
TUVOK: You've been here for sixteen hours. Let me continue while you rest.
JANEWAY: I'll be all right. Go back to the bridge.  
(Tuvok leaves. Janeway returns to her book.)
EMH: How can you read at a time like this?
JANEWAY: It helps me think.
EMH: Think? What do you need to think about?
JANEWAY: You. This book is relevant to your situation.
EMH: Oh? What is it?
JANEWAY: Poetry, written on Earth a thousand years ago. La Vita Nuova.
EMH: La Vita Nuova. The New Life? Ha! Tell that to Ensign Jetal. Actually, I killed her countless times.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: Causality, probability. For every action, there's an infinite number of reactions and in each one of them, I killed her. Or did I? Too many possibilities. Too many pathways for my programme to follow. Impossible to choose. Still, I can't live with the knowledge of what I've done. I can't.
(Janeway has fallen asleep.)
EMH: Captain? Captain?
JANEWAY: Oh, sorry.
EMH: How could you sleep at a time like this?
JANEWAY: It's been a long day. You were saying?
EMH: What's wrong?
JANEWAY: Nothing.
EMH: You're ill!
JANEWAY: I have a headache.
EMH: Fever, you have a fever. 
JANEWAY: I'll live.
EMH: Medical emergency!
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Someone's got to treat you immediately. Call Mister Paris. You've got to get to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I'm a little busy right now, helping a friend.
EMH: I, I'll be all right. Go, sleep, please. I'll still be here in the morning.
JANEWAY: Are you sure?
EMH: Yes. Please, I don't want to be responsible for any more suffering.
(Janeway leave her book open at the first page.)
JANEWAY: Good night. If you need anything.
EMH: I'll call. Thank you, Captain. (Janeway leaves. The EMH picks up the book and reads aloud.)
EMH: In that book which is my memory, on the first page of the chapter that is the day when I first met you, appear the words - Here begins a new life.


S5 E12
Bride of Chaotica!
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 27 January 1999

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
(We are back in the land of black and white Saturday afternoon serials at the cinema.)
NARRATOR: The Adventures of Captain Proton! Chapter Eighteen: Bride of Chaotica! The evil Doctor Chaotica kidnaps Constance Goodheart and plans to sacrifice her to Arachnia, Queen of the Spider People. (Constance screams, Chaotica laughs.) Captain Proton travels millions of miles to Planet X where he will invade the Fortress of Doom. Chaotica fires his fiendish Death Ray. Certain death for Proton as his rocket ship bursts into flames.
KIM: We didn't burst into flames in the last chapter. Why are these recaps always so inaccurate?
PARIS: Well, they brought people back to the theatres.
KIM: Cliff-hangers.
PARIS: The lost art of hyperbole. You ready?
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: Let's get this show on the road. Computer, begin Chapter Eighteen.
KIM: We're receiving a transmission. It's Chaotica.
PARIS: Imagising.
CHAOTICA [on imagiser]: Captain Proton. Surrender!
PARIS: Not a chance. Release Miss Goodheart and we'll be on our way.
CHAOTICA [on imagiser]: I'm afraid your secretary has already been promised to Queen Arachnia as a Supreme Sacrifice.
(Constance screams.)
KIM: You'll never get away with this.
CHAOTICA [on imagiser]: Oh, ho ho ho, but I shall. You escaped from my Death Ray once, but you won't survive this!
KIM: He's charging the weapon.
PARIS: Brace for impact.
KIM: Direct hit. We lost both engines. 
PARIS: Steering jets are on the fritz.
(The periscope reveals a range of mountains dead ahead.)
KIM: We're going down!
PARIS: The landing gear is jammed. Hang on!  
(They get shaken about a bit.)
KIM: Opening hatch.
PARIS: Welcome to Planet X.
KIM: What's the plan?
PARIS: This is the part where we defeat Chaotica's soldiers, steal their uniforms, and make our way through the underground caverns.
KIM: Hey, I thought you said there were slave girls in this chapter.
PARIS: After we infiltrate the Fortress of Doom, we'll free Chaotica's harem. Let's go.
KIM: I'm right behind you.

[Holodeck - Planet X]

KIM: Planet X looks kind of familiar. What was the last place we went to?
PARIS: The Mines of Mercury.
KIM: They're identical.
PARIS: Sets were expensive. At least there's no erupting volcano this time. Ah, behold the Fortress of Doom.
KIM: And how are we supposed to get up there?
PARIS: I told you. The un
BOTH: Derground caverns.
KIM: Right.  
(The ground shakes.)
KIM: I thought you said there was no volcano.
PARIS: I did.
KIM: Er, Tom. (A bright red light is shining purple rays into the monochrome holoprogramme.)
PARIS: Definitely not Chaotica.
KIM: Computer, end programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls are offline.
PARIS: Paris to bridge. Bridge, respond.
KIM: We need to find the manual overrides.
PARIS: There's an access port in the rocket ship. Come on.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: We've dropped out of warp. We're at a dead stop.
JANEWAY: Cause?
TUVOK: Unknown. Engines are operational.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading gravimetric forces around the ship. They're disrupting our power flow.
TUVOK: Control systems are going offline. I no longer have access to communications, deflector, weapons.
JANEWAY: Scan for vessels, tractor beams, anything that might explain what's holding us here.

[Holodeck - Planet X]

(A stocky man in a tall metal hat shouts at Paris and Kim. He has two stooges with him.)
LONZAK: Halt in the name of Chaotica! Proton!
KIM: Buddy of yours?
LONZAK: Surprised? You thought I perished in the Den of Crocodiles.
PARIS: We don't have time for this.
LONZAK: I survived clinging to the thought that I would one day
(Paris shoots him. Lonzak staggers backwards to collapse in comfort, while Kim and Paris shoot the two stooges.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I believe I have an explanation. Sensors show that we've entered a layer of subspace. It's disrupting our warp field.
JANEWAY: Do we have impulse?
CHAKOTAY: Yes
JANEWAY: Engage at full.
TUVOK: No change in our position.
JANEWAY: Route all available power to the engines.
TUVOK: We're not moving.
CHAKOTAY: The impulse reactor's running hot. We're heading for an overload.
JANEWAY: Give it all she's got. Full thrusters.
CHAKOTAY: No effect. Reactors are critical.
JANEWAY: Abort. Increase power to the structural integrity field. We may be here awhile.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

PARIS: It's no use. I can't disengage the programme.
KIM: Well, you better think of something fast, Proton. A second distortion just appeared. Whatever they are, they're getting bigger.
PARIS: Hold on. I've got access to the transporter. I'm going to try a site to site.
KIM: There's a third one.
(Paris beams himself and Kim into a corridor.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've run a trans-spectral analysis. The area between space and subspace is unstable throughout this region.
TORRES: Basically, we've run aground on a subspace sandbar. I've tried realigning the warp field, reversing hull polarity.
PARIS: Maybe we should just get out and push.
SEVEN: The gravimetric forces are disrupting our control systems.
TORRES: As long as we're trapped here we won't have access to the computer core, tactical, holodecks, and all but six replicators.
JANEWAY: What about those distortions on the holodeck? What's the connection?
SEVEN: They appear to be random energy fluctuations. I don't believe they post a threat.
JANEWAY: Let's keep an eye on them anyway, and evacuate that deck just to be safe. A few years back, when I was a science officer on the Al-Batani, we tried to navigate a dense protonebula. It stopped us dead in our tracks. For three days we attempted to force our way out, until we realised we were trying too hard.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Every time we engaged the engines, we were increasing the resistance of the nebula's particle field. We may be facing a similar situation.
SEVEN: Our own warp field may be increasing the gravimetric forces. If we power down the core and use minimal thrusters, we might be able to break free.
JANEWAY: You took the words right out of my mouth.
SEVEN: Your plan could work.
TORRES: Now that we have your blessing.
JANEWAY: Let's give it a try.

[Holodeck - Planet X]

(Two energy beams come down from the distortions and solidify into men in natty suits. They scan the Fortress of Doom.)
LONZAK: Halt, in the name of Chaotica!
ALIEN: We intend no harm.
LONZAK: Seize them! Lower the drawbridge. We are bringing prisoners.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]

CHAOTICA: Yes, yes, yes, Lonzak, what do you want?
LONZAK: Your Majesty.
CHAOTICA: Where's Proton?
LONZAK: He er, escaped.
CHAOTICA: Fool! You will pay for your incompetence. Seize him!
ROBOT: Surrender.
LONZAK: But Majesty, I have brought prisoners.
CHAOTICA: More Earthlings?
LONZAK: No. They claim they're from another Dimension.
CHAOTICA: The Fifth Dimension. Bring them to me.
(The two aliens are brought in.)
ALIEN: Identify yourself.
CHAOTICA: You insult me. I am Chaotica, Ruler of the Cosmos.
LONZAK: Kneel before his Majesty. I said, kneel!  
(The aliens are pushed to their knees.)
CHAOTICA: You have invaded my planet. Why?
ALIEN: To contact other photonic lifeforms. To learn from them.
CHAOTICA: Are you alone or are you the vanguard of an invading army?
ALIEN: We are explorers.
CHAOTICA: I am growing weary of this charade. Your armies will be no match for my space force. We'll crush you like insects.
ALIEN: They are hostile. This contact should be terminated.
CHAOTICA: Indeed. Lonzak, execute them.
(Lonzak obliterates one alien, the other has himself beamed away. Constance screams, of course.)
CHAOTICA: Coward. He'll learn there's no escape from Chaotica. Gather my Space Force. Power the Death Ray.
LONZAK: At once, Majesty.
CHAOTICA: Take Miss Goodheart to Arachnia. Invite the Queen to join me in battle. Together, we will rain destruction on the Fifth Dimension!
(Constance screams as the Robot approaches her.)

Captain's log, supplemental. We've been spinning our wheels for three days now, and still no progress in breaking free of the subspace layer.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Look on the bright side. there's only three meals a day.
JANEWAY: Coffee, black.
NEELIX: Sorry, Captain. We lost two more replicators this morning
JANEWAY: Listen to me very carefully because I'm only going to say this once. Coffee, black.
NEELIX: Yes, ma'am. Coffee, black. While I've got your attention, there are
JANEWAY: Coffee first. Now, what's the problem?
NEELIX: It's a, it's a delicate matter.
JANEWAY: I don't have time to play twenty questions, Neelix.
NEELIX: Replicators aren't the only systems of convenience offline. We've only got four functioning lavatories for a ship of a hundred and fifty people.
JANEWAY: I see.
NEELIX: Needless to say, lines are beginning to form. If we don't get unstuck soon we may have a serious problem on our hands. Especially with the Bolians. All but three sonic showers are offline, too. In another couple of days
JANEWAY: I get the idea.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way. I'm going to leave these problems in your capable hands.
NEELIX: Yes ma'am. I was thinking, if we drew up a schedule.
JANEWAY: Whatever it takes.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Status.
TORRES: The warp core has been powered down. The thrusters at standby.
JANEWAY: Okay. Let's give it a try. Take us out, Tom. Nice and slow.
PARIS: We're moving. Two metres per second. Three metres.
JANEWAY: Steady.
PARIS: Nine metres. Ten.
JANEWAY: Increase power to the thrusters by fifty percent.
TORRES: We're approaching the subspace boundary.
PARIS: Twenty five metres per second. Wait a minute, we're slowing down. Nineteen metres per second, eighteen.
TORRES: Captain, I'm reading power surges.
JANEWAY: Source?
TORRES: Unknown, but they look like weapon signatures.
KIM: I'm not reading any other ships in the area.
PARIS: We've stopped.
TUVOK: I've localised the weapons fire. It's emanating from within the ship. Deck six, holodeck two.
JANEWAY: Who's still on that deck?
TUVOK: No one. No lifesigns.
KIM: There's a programme running. It's Captain Proton.
PARIS: Proton?
CHAKOTAY: Can you shut it down?
KIM: Negative. Control systems still malfunctioning.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, get down there and find out what's happening. Well, join him.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Holodeck - Planet X]

(The planet and part of the Fortress of Doom are a smoking mess.)
TUVOK: It appears that a battle took place.
PARIS: Believe me, it wasn't like this when I left. I must have missed a few chapters.
TUVOK: Holodeck programmes don't normally run by themselves.
PARIS: No kidding.
(They find Constance.)
PARIS: She's dead.
TUVOK: Who is she?
PARIS: Constance Goodheart, my secretary. This doesn't make sense. She isn't supposed to die. She's one of the good guys.
TUVOK: I'm sure you two were very close, but she is a holodeck character.
PARIS: A character from 1930s Hollywood. The good guys never get killed. Something's wrong here.
ROBOT: Invaders from the Fifth Dimension.
PARIS: Satan's Robot.
TUVOK: Naturally.
ROBOT: Queen Arachnia is on her way. Invaders from the Fifth Dimension. Destroy Proton.
(The robot has black scorch marks across its metal, and a few dents.)
PARIS: Give me a hand. If we can repair his vocaliser he might be able to tell us what's been going on. It looks like he burned out a resister.
TUVOK: A what?
PARIS: That's a few centuries before duotronic circuitry.
TUVOK: I see. How do you propose we repair him?
PARIS: Well, first of all, I've gotta remove this damaged tube. No problem. Just a few crossed wires.
TUVOK: Your knowledge of this technology is most impressive.
PARIS: Oh, thanks. Got it.
ROBOT: Intruders. Intruders. Intruders. Intruder alert! Intruder alert!
PARIS: Tell us what happened.
ROBOT: Invaders from the Fifth Dimension. Invaders from the Fifth Dimension
PARIS: Hey, calm down.
TUVOK: How did these invaders get here?
ROBOT: A portal.
PARIS: A Fifth Dimension? There's not supposed to be alien invaders in this story. That's in Captain Proton versus the Cosmic Creature.
ROBOT: Invaders from the Fifth Dimension.
PARIS: Those subspace distortions. Take us to this portal.
(It obeys.)
ROBOT: There.
(Weapons fire comes from four coloured distortions.)
TUVOK: Photonic charges. The same signatures as the weapons fire we detected.
ROBOT: The Fifth Dimension.
TUVOK: We must report this to the Captain.
PARIS: Wait. I want to check my rocket ship first.
TUVOK: Excuse me?
PARIS: It's got sensors, sort of. Maybe they can tell us something Voyager's sensors can't.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've established a visual link with the holodeck. The attack appears to be originating from subspace.
KIM: Can you tell where it's coming from?
SEVEN: No.
(Lightning flashes hit the distortions.)
SEVEN: What was that?
KIM: Chaotica's Death Ray.
SEVEN: Excuse me?
KIM: Let's see if we can get a look inside his Fortress, find out what he's up to.
CHAOTICA [on screen]: Full power to the Death Ray! Arachnia, Queen of the Spider People. You have not responded to my summons. Don't
(Seven mutes the sound.)
KIM: I don't get it. Chaotica was supposed to be fighting Earth in this chapter.
SEVEN: Apparently he's found a new enemy.
KIM: The Fifth Dimension.
SEVEN: It seems your infantile scenario now poses a security risk.
KIM: It was just supposed to be a little harmless entertainment.
SEVEN: Entertainment. Another frivolous human endeavour.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

(Captain Proton has a ticker tape machine.)
TUVOK: These are your sensor readings?
PARIS: Telegram. It's a message to Captain Proton from the President of Earth. Intercepted communications between Doctor Chaotica and Arachnia. Stop. Chaotica at war with aliens from Fifth Dimension. Stop. Must strike now to disable Death Ray.
TUVOK: Stop. Please summarise the message.
PARIS: Well, it looks like Chaotica has captured a couple of aliens from the Fifth Dimension.
TUVOK: An alternate universe.
PARIS: Could be. Maybe they wandered into the holodeck through one of those distortions.
TUVOK: To participate in a game?
(The hatch opens.)
ROBOT: Intruder!
TUVOK: I assume there's no locking mechanism on the hatch?
PARIS: It was a simpler time.
(An alien enters.)
TUVOK: Is he part of the programme?
PARIS: I don't recognise him.
ROBOT: Invaders!
PARIS: Quiet! Look there's been a misunderstanding. I'm Ensign Paris from the Starship Voyager. This is Lieutenant Tuvok.
ALIEN: You have killed fifty three of my people.
PARIS: We haven't killed anyone.
TUVOK: Ensign. Everything you see here is a simulation. None of it's real.
ALIEN: Simulation?
TUVOK: A photonically-based projection.
ALIEN: All life is photonic.
TUVOK: We are not. we are biochemical lifeforms.
ALIEN: I'm not familiar with biochemical.
TUVOK: We are carbon based. We live aboard a starship. I believe we have become trapped in a region of space that intersects your own.
ALIEN: We've detected no starship. Only this planet.
TUVOK: This planet isn't real. As I told you, it's part of a simulation.
PARIS: Maybe we can help you adjust your sensors.
ALIEN: You don't register as a lifeform. You are the illusion.
PARIS: We're as real as you are. Listen.
ROBOT: Citizen of the Fifth Dimension, you will be destroyed. You
(The alien shoots the Robot, who flails around and disarms him. The alien flees.)
PARIS: Wait. Wait!
ROBOT: Damage. Damage. Require maintenance. Help. Help. Help.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Let me get this straight. Transdimensional aliens have mistaken your Captain Proton simulation for reality.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And now an armed conflict has broken out between these aliens and Chaotica's holographic army.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. His Army of Evil.
JANEWAY: And will someone please explain why we haven't simply shut down the holodeck?
SEVEN: We've tried. The controls are still offline.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to get through to these aliens somehow and explain that they're fighting shadows.
PARIS: We've tried, but they don't believe us. They think that we're not real. They can't detect Voyager, so every time they scan us we seem as artificial to them as holographic characters do to us.
CHAKOTAY: That explains why they haven't answered our hails.
SEVEN: The Doctor is photonic. He may be able to persuade them.
JANEWAY: It's worth a try. Brief him.
PARIS: In the meantime, I think we should let the programme play out.
JANEWAY: You're not suggesting we wait until this Chaotica defeats the aliens?
PARIS: No, no, I'm suggesting that we help the aliens to defeat Chaotica. They think that he's leading some kind of hostile invasion force. Once that threat is gone, it's a good bet that they will leave and close up their portals.
CHAKOTAY: How do you propose to defeat Chaotica?
PARIS: Well, he's been attacking the aliens with his Death Ray.
TUVOK: It's a shame we don't have one.
PARIS: Forget about what it's called, Tuvok. In the world of Captain Proton, it's the most powerful weapon that there is. And because it's photonic, it's lethal to these aliens. Now, in Chapter eighteen, Captain Proton disables this weapon just before Chaotica can use it to destroy Earth.
JANEWAY: And you think that Proton, namely you of course, could still do that?
PARIS: Well, we'd have to knock out the Lightning Shield first.
SEVEN: A forcefield.
PARIS: Yeah, now you're catching on. The Destructo Beam on my rocket ship can disable the Death Ray, but only if someone gets inside the Fortress of Doom and can shut down the Lightning Shield.
CHAKOTAY: And who's supposed to do that?
PARIS: Arachnia, Queen of the Spider People.
JANEWAY: Charming.
PARIS: Chaotica thinks so. In the story, he's in love with her. He's been trying to form an alliance since Chapter Three. She's the only one that he trusts, the only one that can get close enough to disable the Lightning Shield. Somebody is going to have to take on her character.
JANEWAY: Who'd you have in mind? Oh, no!
PARIS: It's the role of a lifetime.
TUVOK: Captain, need I remind you that we have exhausted all other possibilities of escaping this layer of subspace.
CHAKOTAY: Until we can eliminate those distortions, we're trapped.
SEVEN: Think of it as Starfleet's first encounter with Planet X.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
PARIS: Captain, it won't be so bad. I can explain to you what you can expect. I can tell you
JANEWAY: All right, all right. I'm a size four.

[Doctor's office]

TORRES: What's the emergency?
EMH: I've been enlisted. I'm supposed to make contact with our photonic friends from the Fifth Dimension and convince them to call off their attack.
TORRES: Congratulations. Why do you need me?
EMH: It's an undercover mission. I'll need a bit of cosmetic surgery. These are the parameters for my new costume. 

[Medical lab]

TORRES: What are you going as, the Emperor of the Universe?
(She starts to adjust the mobile emitter.)
EMH: Well, I've been forced to scale back my role in the interest of credibility. I'll be President of Earth. I must say, the idea of an entire universe populated by photonic beings is rather appealing.
TORRES: Well, if your mission fails, you could be taking up permanent residence.
KIM [OC]: Kim to Sickbay. Report to holodeck two, Doctor.
TORRES: You're all set. The new parameters will activate as soon as you enter the holodeck.
EMH: Thank you.
TORRES: Break a leg.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: So all I have to do is find the controls of this Death Ray and deactivate it.
PARIS: It's not as simple as it sounds. Now, Chaotica might be a 1930s villain, but he's very clever. It'd help if you knew some of the rules.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
PARIS: All right. Well, first of all, he's a megalomaniac, so it's a good idea to appeal to his ego.
JANEWAY: Right.
PARIS: And, er, use grandiose language. He likes to be called sire. And it helps to say things like the clever fiendishness of your evil plan is brilliant.

[Turbolift]

JANEWAY: Deck four.
PARIS: Now remember, it's ray gun, not phaser. Imagiser, not viewscreen. Earthlings, not Terrans.
JANEWAY: Got it.
PARIS: And another thing. These villains always have a trick up their sleeve. Trapdoors, secret weapons.
JANEWAY: It's the holodeck. I can't be hurt by weapons.
PARIS: That doesn't mean you can't be restrained, or thrown into the Dungeon of Pain.
JANEWAY: Noted.
PARIS: Now, as soon as you get the Death Ray shut down, call me in my rocket ship and give me the signal to fire.

[Corridor]

PARIS: You'll have to use Chaotica's broadcast microphone.
JANEWAY: This is how you've been spending your free time?
PARIS: Well, I've been studying how past generations viewed the future.
JANEWAY: And?
PARIS: Well, it didn't work out quite as black and white as they imagined. Now, specifications for Arachnia's costume. One more thing. if you have trouble with Chaotica, or you can't get to the Death Ray, you can always uncork the pheromones.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
PARIS: Chapter sixteen, Spell of the Spider. Arachnia sends Chaotica a vial of her irresistible potion. Now, whenever he gets a whiff, he's under her spell.
JANEWAY: I get the picture.
PARIS: Yeah, well, my point is that these pheromones seem to throw Chaotica for a loop. Well, it works in Chapter sixteen, anyway. Now, the vial is sitting on a small pedestal next to the throne.
JANEWAY: I'll keep an eye out.
PARIS: Okay.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the briefing.
PARIS: I'll see you at the Fortress of Doom. And remember, you're the Queen.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]

LONZAK: Sire. Three more of our space ships have been destroyed.
CHAOTICA: Argh! Full power to the Death Ray.
(He uses his broadcast microphone.)
CHAOTICA: Citizens of the Fifth Dimension. Your feeble attacks are nothing but pinpricks to me. Surrender now and I will be merciful.
LONZAK: We're receiving a transmission.
CHAOTICA: They are surrendering.
LONZAK: No. It's Queen Arachnia. She wishes to cross the drawbridge.
CHAOTICA: What are you waiting for? Show her in.
LONZAK: I present her Royal Highness, Arachnia!
(Enter Janeway is a long, slim-fitting dress, hips thrust forward.)
CHAOTICA: Ahh. At last, at last. My Queen.
(He kisses her hand.)
CHAOTICA:  This is an historic occasion. Kindred souls meet at last.
JANEWAY: It's an honour to be in your presence, Majesty. I've always admired your clever fiendishness.
CHAOTICA: Ah, your taste is exceeded only by your beauty.
JANEWAY: This must be your Death Ray.
CHAOTICA: That, my dear, is the Cradle of Persuasion. It's fully equipped. Brain probe, pain modulator.
JANEWAY: Impressive. It's good you have the Lightning Shield to protect your equipment.
CHAOTICA: Yes. As long as it's electrified, I am invincible. But my greatest achievement is there. Behold, the Death Ray.
JANEWAY: Oh, it looks like a formidable weapon.
CHAOTICA: The most powerful in the cosmos. There is so much more I want to show you. My throne, for example. The seat of my Empire.
JANEWAY: Ah. I see you've kept my pheromones. I didn't realise you were the sentimental type.
CHAOTICA: Your perfume inspires me.
(She tucks the vial into her sleeve.)
JANEWAY: Would you mind?
CHAOTICA: Oh, please.
(Janeway sits on the throne.)
JANEWAY: Somehow I feel comfortable here.
CHAOTICA: Join me and you will have your own chair. One adorned with the most precious jewels and the softest silk.
JANEWAY: Your Majesty seems overly concerned with romantic matters when there's a battle to be won. That is why you asked me here.
CHAOTICA: Of course, my dear. Forgive me. It's just that the air itself seems to vibrate in your presence.
JANEWAY: We can't be slaves to our passion. Not when your Empire is threatened. I have assembled my fleet of Spider ships. However, the Lightning Shield prevents them from approaching your fortress.
CHAOTICA: We'll send them directly into battle, alongside my space force.
JANEWAY: My soldiers wish to pay homage to you.
CHAOTICA: Gratifying. Of course, if I lower the shield my fortress will be defenceless. Even an ally might choose such a moment to seize my throne.
JANEWAY: You don't trust me.
CHAOTICA: There is a way you could convince me of your loyalty.
JANEWAY: Oh?
CHAOTICA: I'll lower my Lightning Shield but first, you must become my Queen! Gather my courtiers! Prepare for the ceremony!
JANEWAY: And don't forget to deactivate the Lightning Shield, so my subjects may witness the blessed event.
CHAOTICA: Very well. Do as she says, once her guests have arrived.
LONZAK: Yes, Sire.
CHAOTICA: And so, my dear, the day you have always dreamed of has arrived. The day you become Bride of Chaotica!

[Holodeck - Planet X]

(The EMH is dressed in a sober suit, just like the aliens. His breast pocket bears the insignia of the Federation of Planets. He has picked up one of the alien's devices. He presses it and the alien appears.)
EMH: Welcome.
ALIEN: You are photonic.
EMH: Guilty as charged.
ALIEN: You signalled me across the threshold. How?
EMH: I believe you dropped your calling card. I return it to you as a sign of good faith.
ALIEN: Identify yourself.
EMH: I am the President of Earth.
ALIEN: Earth?
EMH: A planet some distance from here. I've come on a mission of peace.
ALIEN: Elaborate.
EMH: Your people and the people of Earth have a common enemy.
ALIEN: Chaotica.
EMH: The one and only.
ALIEN: He threatens to invade our realm, destroy our people.
EMH: Join the club. Chaotica has designs on Earth too. But we've withstood countless attacks, all thanks to one man. Captain Proton.
ALIEN: Captain Proton?
EMH: Defender of the universe, scourge of intergalactic evil, And a competent medic to boot, but don't say I said so. Even as we speak, he's preparing to destroy Chaotica's Death Ray, but he needs your help.
ALIEN: Explain.
EMH: Your weapons pose a threat to Proton's rocket ship. You must cease firing while he mounts his attack. Once Chaotica's Death Ray is destroyed, you can return to your realm confident that you'll never hear from him again.
ALIEN: Captain Proton may proceed.
EMH: On behalf of the citizens of Earth, I thank you.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

PARIS: Space drive.
KIM: Check.
ROBOT: Check.
PARIS: Destructo beam.
KIM: Check.
ROBOT: Check.
PARIS: If I could access holodeck controls, the first thing I'd do is delete this guy.
ROBOT: Delete this guy.
PARIS: As a matter of fact, as soon as this is all over I think I'm going to delete the whole programme.
KIM: What about your historical study?
PARIS: Class dismissed. No more robots, no more mad scientists, no more Death Rays. I am retiring my rocket pack, Harry. Someone else can save the universe from now on.
KIM: The final chapter, huh?
PARIS: The end.
(The EMH enters.)
EMH: Isn't anyone going to sing Hail to the Chief?
KIM: Mister President. How'd it go?
EMH: My performance was unimpeachable.
KIM: He agreed?
EMH: Let's just say I'm considering running for office when we get back to Earth.
PARIS: All right, then. Let's get this thing in the air and hope Captain Janeway is giving a command performance.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]

LONZAK: Queen Arachnia.
(Lonzak presents Janeway with a gaudy bauble on a pillow.)
JANEWAY: Don't tell me. My wedding ring.
LONZAK: Doctor Chaotica's wedding ring. You will present it to him at the end of the ceremony.
JANEWAY: Your Majesty, perhaps we should lower the Lightning Shield in anticipation of my guests.
CHAOTICA: Why this preoccupation with the Shield?
JANEWAY: Oh, forgive me. It's just that, as a fellow ruler of the cosmos I often have to do things myself.
CHAOTICA: Ah. Because of the incompetence of your inferiors, no doubt.
JANEWAY: Something like that.
CHAOTICA: Oh, Arachnia, my love, my life. how well you understand our plight. If it weren't beneath my dignity, I, I would weep. How I've longed for someone who would understand.
JANEWAY: We have a saying on Arachnia. It's lonely at the top.
CHAOTICA: No longer, my dear.
LONZAK: Majesty! Proton is preparing to attack.
CHAOTICA: Target his rocket ship.
(Janeway knocks out the minion at the controls and takes his ray gun.)
CHAOTICA: You have betrayed me. You are in league with Proton. Impetuous harlot!
JANEWAY: Tell me how to deactivate the Lightning Shield, or I'll show you just how impetuous I can be.
CHAOTICA: What are you waiting for, you great lummox? Kill her!
(Lonzak's ray gun has no effect.)
JANEWAY: Ha! You're no match for Arachnia. Now, tell me how to shut down the Shield.
CHAOTICA: The confinement rings.
(Lonzak presses a button on his belt, and Janeway is trapped inside a cylindrical forcefield.)
CHAOTICA: Oh, don't worry, I wouldn't kill my bride. Not until after our wedding night. Reactivate the Death Ray! Destroy Proton!

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

PARIS: We've been hit.
KIM: Well, I guess the Captain ran into some trouble.
PARIS: We're not going down without a fight. Doc, activate the Destructo Beam.
EMH: The what?
PARIS: Big button in the middle of that panel.
ROBOT: Destructo Beam!
KIM + PARIS: The other panel!
EMH: Destructo beam activated.
KIM: We just dropped out of range. We're losing altitude.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Report.
TORRES: The alien weapons fire is increasing. It's causing the distortions to grow larger. We're being pulled deeper into subspace.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

ROBOT: Invaders! Invaders!
EMH: Er, incoming.
(Whumph!)

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]

(Janeway is out of the forcefield and chained to the wall with her hands behind her.)
LONZAK: Proton's ship is damaged, but still airborne.
CHAOTICA: Not for long. Fire at will.
(Janeway unstoppers the vial of pheromones.)
CHAOTICA: Lonzak.
(Lonzak takes over Chaotica's place at the Death Ray.)
CHAOTICA: (to minion.) Man the Lightning Shield.
(The pheromones go up Lonzak's nose. He goes over to her.)
LONZAK: Arachnia?
CHAOTICA: Lonzak. Quickly, Lonzak. No time for dawdling.
LONZAK: Your beauty is maddening. Entangle me in your web.
JANEWAY: Let me out of here and I'll do all that, and more.
LONZAK: At once, my Queen.
CHAOTICA: Back to your station.
(Janeway knocks out Lonzak and takes his weapon.)
CHAOTICA: Idiot!
(She shoots the stooges.)
JANEWAY: Deactivate the shield. Now.
CHAOTICA: Such passion, such strength. Together we could conquer the universe. End this madness, and you may yet live to be my Bride.
JANEWAY: The shield.
(Chaotica obeys.)
JANEWAY: I don't know how to tell you this (she shoots him) but the wedding's off. Arachnia to Proton. Arachnia to Proton. Do you read me?

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]

JANEWAY [OC]: Arachnia to Proton.
PARIS: I'm reading you.
JANEWAY [OC]: The Lightning Shield is down.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Harry, target the Death Ray. Doc, fire the Destructo Beam on my mark. Ready? Now!
(The energy from the Destructo Beam travels down the Death Ray and into Chaotica, who jerks around briefly before collapsing.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The distortions are closing.
TORRES: We're realigning with normal space.
CHAKOTAY: Helm, full impulse.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC] The aliens have retreated

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: And they've closed the distortions. We've cleared the subspace layer.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]

JANEWAY: Secure all systems, and organise damage repair teams.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Understood. We're preparing to shut down the holodeck.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, give me a minute.
(The Robot enters, followed by Paris, Kim, and the EMH.)
PARIS: I was about to say, Captain Proton to the rescue, but I see you have everything under control.
JANEWAY: I'm the Queen, remember?
CHAOTICA: Arachnia, death as you know it has no hold on me. My defeat is but a temporary setback. I shall return to seek my revenge.
JANEWAY: He doesn't give up, does he?
PARIS: They never do.
CHAOTICA: Our love was not meant to be, my Queen. But be warned. You have not seen the last of (gurgle) Chaotica.
PARIS: The end of a twisted madman.
JANEWAY: And you're going to miss him.
PARIS: A little.
(The End comes up on the imagiser, then a ? with evil laughter.)


S5 E13
Gravity
Stardate: 52438.9
Original Airdate: 3 February 1999

[Shrine]
(The dark place is barely lit by a multitude of smoky candles and braziers.)
VULCAN MASTER: The Kol-Ut-Shan. A cornerstone of our beliefs.
YOUNG TUVOK: Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations. I know all about Vulcan philosophies.
VULCAN MASTER: Why have you come here?
YOUNG TUVOK: I was sent against my will.
VULCAN MASTER: Then I suggest you leave.
YOUNG TUVOK: I'm not a prisoner?
VULCAN MASTER: Only of your emotions, or so I have been told.
YOUNG TUVOK: My emotions free me.
VULCAN MASTER: I see. It's regrettable that I won't be able to teach you.
YOUNG TUVOK: Where should I go?
VULCAN MASTER: Are you seeking my counsel?
YOUNG TUVOK: I can't return home. My father's banished me.
VULCAN MASTER: Your school?
YOUNG TUVOK: They revoked my seat.
VULCAN MASTER: Why?
YOUNG TUVOK: Because I refused to deny myself passion, the way you and men like my father do.
VULCAN MASTER: You reject logic.
YOUNG TUVOK: If I was meant to deny feelings, why was I born with them? Where's the logic in that?
VULCAN MASTER: Hidden for you to find. Or in plain sight for you to ignore.
YOUNG TUVOK: You speak in riddles because the truth frightens you.
VULCAN MASTER: You're right, it does frighten me. You are surprised to hear a Vulcan master admit to having emotions?
YOUNG TUVOK: Yes.
VULCAN MASTER: Emotions can be a powerful tool. To deny their existence is illogical. But you must learn to control them.
YOUNG TUVOK: Why?
VULCAN MASTER: You wish to be taught?
YOUNG TUVOK: I would question everything you say.
VULCAN MASTER: You would not be a worthy pupil otherwise. Let us begin. Sit down, Tuvok.

[Shuttlecraft]

(On a red-soiled, rock strewn desert planet, a young woman hunts for large spiders. She sees a small spacecraft land, and goes to see what she can salvage. She is at the helm console when Paris returns. She points a weapon at him and shouts.)  
NOSS: Tu be veg!
PARIS: Er, sorry?
NOSS: Sen. Neeba sen.
PARIS: Either the universal translator's offline, or I hit my head harder than I thought.
NOSS: Ruk.
PARIS: All right. Take it easy. All right, all right. Take it easy.
NOSS: Fita!
PARIS: This? Listen, I really need this.
NOSS: Fita ur neeto.
PARIS: Okay, okay.
(He hands over his satchel and she leaves.)
PARIS: First day in town and I've already been mugged.

[Planet surface]

(A second figure stalks Noss as she walks up a gully. Another jumps out in front of her and grabs her bags. She is overpowered, but before one can stab her, Tuvok grabs his arm. He knocks him out, and slams the second alien into the rock cliff. The first wakes, and gets a neck pinch.)
TUVOK: I'm Commander Tuvok of the Starship Voyager. Tuvok.
NOSS: Tuwok.
TUVOK: Yes. And you?
NOSS: Noss.
TUVOK: Noss.
(He holds out his hand and helps her to her feet.)
TUVOK: We'll go to my vessel. I see you've already been there.

[Shuttle]

PARIS: Mayday, mayday. Paris to Voyager, Respond. Oh, come on.
TUVOK: Her name is Noss. She was attacked by two humanoid males.
PARIS: Sure she didn't attack them?
TUVOK: They were attempting to rob her.
PARIS: Seems to be a local pastime.
TUVOK: She requires medical attention.
PARIS: I'd love to help, but somebody stole our med-kits.
(Tuvok returns them, and Paris sees to Noss' injuries..)
TUVOK: Food. What's the status of the shuttle?
PARIS: Fractures throughout the hull, environmental systems down, impulse engines are beyond repair. Told you we should have brought the Delta Flyer.
TUVOK: Communications appear to be functional.
PARIS: It won't do us any good. Every time I transmit a signal, it gets bounced back by the distortion field that pulled us down here. It looks like we fell into some kind of gravity well. As far as I can tell, this planet is a part of an entire solar system that is stuck in a pocket of subspace.
TUVOK: Fascinating.
PARIS: Yeah. Well, scientific interest aside, I don't see any easy way out.
TUVOK: No doubt Voyager has begun a rescue effort. The Doctor?
PARIS: His mobile emitter was damaged during the crash. With a little luck, I might be able to repair it and bring him back online.
TUVOK: Make it your top priority.
NOSS: Gren, gren.
PARIS: What is it?
TUVOK: Thirteen humanoids approaching. The same species that attacked her. Gather as many supplies as you can carry. We're leaving.
PARIS: You really think it's smart to abandon the shuttle?
TUVOK: Noss appears to have survived here for some time. It's logical to assume she has access to a more secure shelter.
NOSS: Nemok. Alen. Alen.
PARIS: Whatever you say.

[Planet surface]

(Noss leads them to a vantage point, then points at a large wrecked freighter.)
NOSS: Ai kan.

[Noss's ship]

PARIS: Doesn't look like this bird's gonna fly either.
TUVOK: Minimal power and life support, but the ship is protected by a forcefield.
PARIS: That explains how she's been able to survive here. Anything resembling an engine?
TUVOK: I'm detecting engine debris two kilometres away. It is of the same configuration as this vessel.
PARIS: Great. We've got two unusable ships, and the only way Voyager is going to detect our distress call is if they crash land right on top of us.
TUVOK: Progress?
(Referring to the mobile emitter.)
PARIS: The optronic relays took heavy damage. I'm bypassing the primary circuits. Come on, Doc. I know you're in there.
(The EMH solidifies.)
EMH: I'm guessing we hit a snag.
TUVOK: An accurate assumption.
NOSS: Rev den ut. Ut rev?
EMH: Tun sank. Ton rev ut teem sayd.
PARIS: You speak her language?
EMH: A universal translator was written into my programme.
PARIS: Ask her how long she's been here. If she knows a way to get back through that sinkhole.
EMH: Deen ya tone ud la kar. Padeen nefka minruk?
NOSS: Laka heen. Zen nik lurka. Irut tota. Maez bemrukaya.
PARIS: What'd she say? 
EMH: She said she's been here fourteen seasons, and in that time, she's seen many ships come down. but she's never seen one go back up again.

[Planet surface]

(Paris is learning the art of hunting large spiders. You place a gizmo on a large rock which irritates the creature enough to make it come out. Then you stab it with a three-pronged knife. That's the part Paris can't get the hang of.)
PARIS: Come back, you little bloodsucker.
(Noss laughs.)
PARIS: I don't know what's worse, catching them or eating them.
NOSS: No poison.
PARIS: Well, hey may not be poisonous but they give me the creeps. Maybe I should have left the hunting to you and Tuvok.
NOSS: Let me. Yah!
(She gets one first time.)
PARIS: Looks delicious.

[Noss's ship]

EMH: Shut down my programme? Why?
TUVOK: Our resources are severely limited. We may need your mobile emitter as a source of power.
EMH: I'm a Doctor, not a battery.
TUVOK: Until we're rescued, or you are needed for an emergency, I must insist that you remain offline.
PARIS: Make way for the mighty hunters.
EMH: If Mister Paris' hunting ability is any indication, maybe we should take him offline.
PARIS: Thanks for the vote of confidence, Doc.
NOSS: The hunt was good.
TUVOK: Impressive.
(Later, whilst preparing dinner.)
TUVOK: Voyager has fifteen decks, a crew of one hundred fifty two, warp and impulse engines.
NOSS: I want to see.
TUVOK: Someday, perhaps.
NOSS: Tell me about you there.
TUVOK: I am the Chief Tactical Officer.
NOSS: What else?
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
NOSS: Your duties. Where you sleep. What you eat. Music. Friends.
TUVOK: Why is any of that relevant?
NOSS: Because it is you.
(Later,  at dinner.)
PARIS: When I first met her, she wouldn't even look at me. But she warmed up after, oh, three years.
EMH: The longest flirtation in Starfleet history.
PARIS: No kidding.
NOSS: She sounds fascinating.
PARIS: I just hope I see her again.
NOSS: You must really baiya jouton.
EMH: Love her very much.
PARIS: Yeah.
NOSS: More spiders?
PARIS: Oh, no, thank you. Three's my limit.
TUVOK: I will assist you.
EMH: Well, I suppose it's time I shut down my programme.
PARIS: Good night, Doc.
(And later still.)
PARIS: She likes you.
TUVOK: She has been alone for many years. She appreciates our company.
PARIS: No. I mean she likes you.
TUVOK: What are you implying?
PARIS: Oh, come on, Tuvok. You may be cold, but you're not blind.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that I am married.
PARIS: Your wife is fifty thousand light years away, in a different layer of space! The chances of you ever seeing her again are practically nonexistent.
TUVOK: Excuse me.

[Planet surface]

PARIS: What are you doing?
TUVOK: I'm recalibrating the distress beacon.
PARIS: Listen. What I said in there, about your wife. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt your feelings.
TUVOK: I have no feelings for you to hurt.
PARIS: I think you do. You work hard to bury them, but they're there. And even if they're not, this is home now. You might as well accept it and try to find as much happiness as you can. Listen, you have a chance to make a decent life for yourself here.
TUVOK: There is still a possibility that Voyager will rescue us. You may see Lieutenant Torres again.
PARIS: If I didn't know you better, I'd say you were trying to cheer me up, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Is there a point to your pessimism?
PARIS: It's not pessimism, it's practicality. You of all people should understand that. Look, I've never met your wife but if she's half a logical as you are, I bet you she'd tell you the same thing.
TUVOK: Your attempt to play matchmaker is misguided. I am not experiencing Pon farr.
PARIS: What difference does it make? You obviously care about Noss. If you won't admit it to me, at least admit it to yourself.
TUVOK: I respect her ability to survive.
PARIS: It's more than that. I've seen the way you look at her.
TUVOK: What way is that?
PARIS: Like someone who wishes he wasn't Vulcan.

[Shrine]

YOUNG TUVOK: I'm sorry I was born Vulcan.
VULCAN MASTER: Bilak par. Self-pity.
YOUNG TUVOK: Are you cataloguing my emotions?
VULCAN MASTER: What is the source of your self-pity?
YOUNG TUVOK: Isn't it obvious? If I weren't Vulcan, I wouldn't be here now going through this pointless ritual.
VULCAN MASTER: You see only what is in front of you. You must learn to see behind you.
YOUNG TUVOK: Another riddle. I have no eyes to see behind me.
VULCAN MASTER: You have the eyes of memory. The knowledge of why you are here, and why you have lost control. Tell me your story.
YOUNG TUVOK: My father's already explained it.
VULCAN MASTER: I wish to hear it from you.
YOUNG TUVOK: Her name's Jara. Her father's a Terrelian diplomat. She's been granted a seat at my school.
VULCAN MASTER: And you have developed an emotional attraction toward her.
YOUNG TUVOK: Yes.
VULCAN MASTER: You love her.
YOUNG TUVOK: Yes.
VULCAN MASTER: Does she love you?
YOUNG TUVOK: No. She's, Jara doesn't return my feelings.
VULCAN MASTER: What if I were to say that I received a letter from your father, telling me that Jara is in love with one of your fellow students?
YOUNG TUVOK: That's a lie! Who is it?
VULCAN MASTER: Jealousy?
YOUNG TUVOK: I'll challenge him.
VULCAN MASTER: That would be illogical, because I have received no such letter.
YOUNG TUVOK: You're trying to trick me.
VULCAN MASTER: No. I'm trying to help you to understand. Shon-ha'lock, love, is the most dangerous emotion of all. It produces many other emotions. Jealousy, shame, rage, grief. You must learn to suppress them all, otherwise they will consume you. I can sense emotions building inside you like a gathering storm. If we begin now, we may be able to stop them.

Captain's Log, supplemental. It's been over an hour since the shuttle disappeared from sensors.

[Bridge]

TORRES: I'm not detecting any debris.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the shuttle was tractored or transported somewhere.
JANEWAY: Scan the region. Look for plasma emissions or EM displacements. Anything that might indicate another ship.
KIM: Nothing out of the ordinary. Hydrogen, helium, space dust.
JANEWAY: There has to be something out there. Shuttles don't just vanish into thin air.  
(Whumph!)
TORRES: It's a gravimetric shear.
JANEWAY: Source.
KIM: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Helm, full ahead.
KIM: We're caught in some kind of subspace sinkhole. It's pulling us in.
CHAKOTAY: The gravimetric shear is increasing.
JANEWAY: Go to warp
TORRES: I can't establish a field.
JANEWAY: Then we need more power to the impulse engines.
TORRES: That won't be enough. We've got to find a way to counter the gravitational pull.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, vent three million isodynes of plasma from the nacelles. Chakotay, reverse shield polarity.
KIM: We're clear.
JANEWAY: Move us away. Stand down red alert. Secure all stations. I'd say we have a pretty good idea what happened to that shuttle.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The anomaly is approximately six hundred metres in diameter.
TORRES: It's out of phase with normal space. Even after recalibrating the sensors, it barely registers.
SEVEN: The distortion circumscribes a subspace zone that includes a Type G sun and three planets.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of the shuttle?
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: I'd say it's time to break out the multispatial probe.
JANEWAY: Agreed. What the hell was that?
SEVEN: A vessel approaching off the port bow. They've locked on a tractor beam.
KIM [OC]: Captain to the bridge.

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm only going to say this one more time. Disengage your tractor beam, sir.
(The alien on the viewscreen is the same race as the ones who attacked Noss.)
YOST [on viewscreen]: You were in danger of being pulled into the distortion. You should show a little gratitude.
KIM: We appreciate your help, but we didn't ask for. Captain, this is Mister Yost.
YOST [on viewscreen]: Supervisor Yost, Renovation Team Nova.
JANEWAY: Kathryn Janeway, of the Starship Voyager.
YOST [on viewscreen]: Until tomorrow, I suggest you stay at least two million kilometres from the distortion.
JANEWAY: What happens tomorrow?
YOST [on viewscreen]: The rift will be closed by then.
JANEWAY: Some of our crew are trapped inside.
YOST [on viewscreen]: I am sorry. We have lost eleven ships to the distortion over the last year. It must be sealed.
CHAKOTAY: What about your people?
YOST [on viewscreen]: Even if there were survivors, there's no way to rescue them. The best we can do is to prevent others from being trapped.
JANEWAY: We can't abandon our crew. If you could delay your mission
YOST [on viewscreen]: My orders are to seal the rift by this time tomorrow. If you want to attempt a rescue between now and then, the risk is yours to take, but I wouldn't advise it.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Launch the probe.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Work with B'Elanna and Seven to enhance the sensors. Do whatever you can to find Tom and Tuvok. I'll be looking for a way to counter those gravitational forces.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in. I've been brushing up on sinkholes, quantum singularities.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?  
JANEWAY: All the data leads me to the same conclusion. They're mono-directional phenomena. What goes in doesn't come out.
CHAKOTAY: Well if it's any consolation, something's coming out of that anomaly.
JANEWAY: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Telemetry from our probe. We've located the shuttle's distress beacon on a Class-D planet.
JANEWAY: Vulcan, human, alien lifesigns. At least we know they're alive.
CHAKOTAY: Keep reading.
JANEWAY: There's astronomical data here covering a three month period. How is that possible?
CHAKOTAY: There seems to be some sort of temporal differential.
JANEWAY: How big a differential?
CHAKOTAY: It's difficult to say, but every hour that passes for us could mean weeks, even months for Tom and Tuvok.
JANEWAY: Months trying to survive in a Class-D environment? More than likely, they've assumed that we left them behind long ago.
CHAKOTAY: Ready for the bad news?
JANEWAY: You're kidding.
CHAKOTAY: The gravitational stress is increasing. Seven believes the sinkhole is on the verge of collapse. When it does, everything inside will be crushed.

[Noss's ship]

(Paris staggers in, carrying Tuvok.)
PARIS: Noss!
(He activates the EMH.)
EMH: Medical tricorder.
PARIS: We were ambushed.
EMH: Give me twenty milligrams of inaprovaline.
PARIS: They got away with a pair of resonator coils that we found.
EMH: Three fractured ribs, subdural hematoma, internal bleeding.
NOSS: Will he live?
EMH: Vulcans are very resilient. He'll be fine. How long has it been since I was last activated?
PARIS: Almost two months.
EMH: Two months? So, what's new?
PARIS: Oh, same old thing. Fighting off scavengers, hunting spiders.
EMH: No word from Voyager?
PARIS: They're probably three hundred light years closer to home by now.
EMH: I think I should remain online until Mister Tuvok is fully recovered.
PARIS: It's good to have you back, Doc.
(Time passes.)
NOSS: Rest.
TUVOK: How long was I unconscious?
NOSS: Too many hours.
TUVOK: Mister Paris?
NOSS: He'll be fine. I was afraid. It is good to see your eyes.
(Noss kisses Tuvok.)
TUVOK: Don't.
NOSS: I only want to show you how I feel. You, you, you feel nothing for me?
TUVOK: I told you, I don't experience emotion. I have developed an appreciation and respect for you. Nothing more.
NOSS: Nothing?
TUVOK: I am sorry. I cannot return your affection.
NOSS: You cannot, or you will not?
TUVOK: A minor distinction.
NOSS: Logic! I hate logic!
TUVOK: Your emotions will only exacerbate the situation.
NOSS: Shevrot kat!
TUVOK: Insulting me will not help.
NOSS: Derot orat!

{Ready room]

SEVEN: We can use the multispatial probe as a transporter relay.
TORRES: It'll take a little time to reconfigure the targeting scanners but, with a little luck, it should work.
JANEWAY: Any reason we can't use the same relay to send a comm. signal?
TORRES: I don't see why not.
JANEWAY: Good. Let them know that help is on the way.
KIM [OC]: Captain to the bridge.

[Bridge]

KIM: They've started ahead of schedule.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
YOST [on viewscreen]: Yes?
JANEWAY: It was my understanding you wouldn't begin for another six hours.
YOST [on viewscreen]: We're ready now.
JANEWAY: Well we're not. We need at least another two hours to make a rescue attempt.
YOST [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: How long until they seal the rift?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty minutes.
JANEWAY: Then that's all we've got.

[Planet surface - rock ledge]

(Tuvok is kneeling on an overhang.)
PARIS: Tuvok? Hey!
TUVOK: I am meditating, Mister Paris.
PARIS: I don't care.
TUVOK: I trust there is an urgent reason for your lack of courtesy.
PARIS: You're damn right there is. What did you say to her?
TUVOK: Our conversation was private.
PARIS: Well, whatever you said, she's talking about leaving. Going off by herself because it's too painful to be around you.
TUVOK: She is under the influence of unfettered emotions.
PARIS: Well, maybe you're able to fetter your emotions, but the rest of us don't have that luxury. She is a living, breathing woman who for reasons that I can't begin to fathom, has fallen in love with you. Now, if you're incapable of returning her feelings, at least show her some compassion. Try to let her down easy.
TUVOK: There is no easy way to recover from infatuation.
PARIS: Oh, really? And what do you know about infatuation?
TUVOK: More than you might imagine.
PARIS: Enlighten me.
TUVOK: I have no intention of continuing this conversation any further.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok. Come on. It's just you, me and the rocks.
(Tuvok stands up.)
TUVOK: When I was a young man, I experienced an emotional attraction toward a woman. It nearly destroyed me.
PARIS: Your wife?
TUVOK: No. Her name was Jara, a Terrelian female. I would have violated every tenet of Vulcan philosophy simply to be near her.
PARIS: She must have really been something.
TUVOK: I lost all sense of who I was. The emotional attraction I felt for her became a kind of insanity.
PARIS: Tuvok, everyone feels a little insane when they fall in love, but it's worth the risk.
TUVOK: For you, perhaps. But I am Vulcan. My natural emotions are erratic, volatile. If I don't control them, they will control me.
PARIS: Whatever happened to Jara?
TUVOK: I chose to leave her. I spent several months in isolation, studying with a Vulcan Master. I learned to suppress my emotions.
PARIS: Too bad.
(A whirlpool opens in the sky. Tuvok gets out his tricorder.)
TUVOK: Gravimetric distortions.
PARIS: What's causing them?
TUVOK: Unknown.

[Bridge]

KIM: No response to our hails, Captain.
SEVEN: At this rate, their anti-graviton beam will seal the distortion in approximately twenty nine minutes.
JANEWAY: Transporter status?
TORRES: I've completed the reconfiguration, but we're only going to be able to relay one transporter beam through the probe.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to get Tom and Tuvok within a two metre radius of the distress beacon.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: I've opened a channel.
JANEWAY: Voyager to away team.

[Noss's ship]

PARIS: What is it?
TUVOK: The distress beacon. We're receiving a transmission.
PARIS: Can you route it through your comm. system? If I'm right, this message was sent almost nine hours ago on a very slow carrier wave.
EMH: Can you speed it up?
PARIS: I'll try.
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to away team. A transporter beam with a radius of two metres will activate at the coordinates of your distress beacon in exactly thirty minutes.
EMH: Thirty minutes? That would have been over eight hours ago!
PARIS: Shh, there's more.
JANEWAY [OC]: Be advised we've detected a temporal difference between our two positions. According to our calculations, the differential ratio is point four seven four four seconds per minute. Repeat. Voyager to away team. A transporter beam with a radius of two metres
TUVOK: According to that formula, thirty minutes would translate to two days, eleven hours and forty seven seconds.
EMH: Well, we've waited this long.
NOSS: Tom.
(Aliens are massing for an attack. They detonate charges at the forcefield perimeter.)
TUVOK: The forcefield is holding.
PARIS: Not for long if they keep pelting us with these photon grenades.
EMH: How are we supposed to hold them off for two more days?

[Bridge]

SEVEN: The rift will be sealed in less than two minutes.
JANEWAY: Move us into range. Stand by for transport.
TORRES: Yes, ma'am.

[Noss's ship]

PARIS: The forcefield's losing power. Time?
EMH: We still have another hour before transport.
TUVOK: Where are you going?
NOSS: To repair the field generator.
TUVOK: I will accompany you.
NOSS: No. You stay. Prepare for the attack.
TUVOK: You can't go alone.
NOSS: Risking two lives would be illogical.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We're in transporter range.
JANEWAY: Link up with the probe and relay the signal.
TORRES: Stand by. I've got a lock on their beacon.
JANEWAY: They're supposed to be ready for transport in thirty two seconds. Let's hope they don't stand us up. Begin twenty second countdown on my mark. Now.

[Noss's ship]

EMH: We've got less than ten minutes to transport.
PARIS: Where the hell is Noss?
TUVOK: I'll find her.
(Two aliens break down the forcefield and attack Noss.)

[Bridge]

TORRES: Fifteen seconds. Fourteen. Thirteen.

[Planet surface]

(Tuvok comes to Noss' rescue.)
NOSS: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I could not leave you behind.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Nine. Eight. Seven.

[Noss's ship]

EMH: Now, Mister Paris!
(An alien breaks in at attacks Paris. Tuvok shoots him in the back..)
PARIS: Hurry.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Four. Three. Two.
JANEWAY: Initialise transport sequence. Energise.

[Transporter room]

KIM: We've got them. Welcome back. Who?
TUVOK: A friend.

Commander Tuvok, personal log, stardate 52438.9. We are en route to Noss' homeworld. As I prepare to say goodbye, I find myself experiencing a certain discomfort.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Tuvok. Weird day.
TUVOK: Problems?
PARIS: I've spent the last two months wondering if I'd ever see B'Elanna again. As far as she's concerned, it's only been two days. I guess I expected her to have missed me, too.
TUVOK: Were it not for the time differential, I'm sure she would have experienced a deep sense of loss.
PARIS: You know something? I always thought that beneath that cold, Vulcan exterior lay a even colder Vulcan interior. Now, I'm convinced you're a hopeless romantic.
TUVOK: There is no need to insult me, Mister Paris.

[Transporter room]

NEELIX: Oh, here they are now. I was just getting Noss' recipe for sautéed spiders. She told me how much you enjoyed them.
PARIS: Let's just say it's an acquired taste.
NOSS: Goodbye, Tom. (They hug.) Thank you.
PARIS: Come on, Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, of course.
PARIS: Crewman.
(They leave Tuvok and Noss alone.)
NOSS: I'm sorry.
TUVOK: For what?
NOSS: I know how difficult this was for you. For us. I just wish things had been different.
TUVOK: As do I.
(Tuvok mind-melds with Noss. After a moment, she smiles.)
NOSS: I understand. Thank you.
(Tuvok hands Noss up onto the transporter platform, then goes to the controls.)
TUVOK: Live long and prosper, Noss.
NOSS: You too.
(He beams her away.)

[Shrine]

(Tuvok is meditating in his quarters, and remembering.)
VULCAN MASTER: Infinite diversity
YOUNG TUVOK: In infinite combinations.
VULCAN MASTER: Your training is now complete. You have done well.
YOUNG TUVOK: Thank you.
VULCAN MASTER: You are now prepared to return to the world. Grief, anger, fear, and especially love, will never threaten you again.
YOUNG TUVOK: I am grateful.


S5 E14
Bliss
Stardate: 52542.3
Original Airdate: 10 February 1999

[Qatai's ship]
(A little ship is being hit by energy strikes. The pilot is humanoid, with white hair and beard, and a bumpy forehead.)
QATAI: Ah! Surprised? What's wrong? Can't figure out why I'm still not running, ha? Can't read my thoughts? Go ahead, attack, take my ship. Damn ship. Hold together. Hold!
(Energy plays over the control surfaces as he heads into a nebula.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Wormhole?
TUVOK: Approximately four hundred million kilometres from our position.
CHAKOTAY: Take a look at the transkinetic vector.
JANEWAY: It leads to sector zero zero one.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a wormhole but we're detecting massive bioplasmic activity.
JANEWAY: That suggests a lifeform. Neutrino flux?
CHAKOTAY: Erratic.
JANEWAY: A direct route to Earth's doorstep, out of the blue. What's wrong with this picture?
CHAKOTAY: We should launch a probe.
JANEWAY: Go to yellow alert. Prepare a class five probe. Let's see what's really out there.

Daily log, Seven of Nine. While we failed to locate a new source of deuterium, our mission had educational value for at least one member of the crew.

[Delta Flyer]

NAOMI: If you go looking for deuterium tomorrow, can I come?
PARIS: Well, that's up to the Captain.
SEVEN: It's likely you'll be replaced by a more experienced officer.
NAOMI: But this is my first away mission and I didn't get to do anything.
SEVEN: I disagree. You familiarised yourself with this vessel.
NAOMI: Well, can't we make first contact with somebody, or get in a space battle?
PARIS: Yeah, can't we?
SEVEN: Another time, perhaps.
PARIS: Hey, Naomi, you want to take the helm?
NAOMI: Can I?
SEVEN: Ensign.
PARIS: She'll be familiarising herself with the vessel. Here. Okay, first bring us up to one quarter impulse. Hit this control, then that one.
NAOMI: One quarter impulse, aye.
PARIS: Now, you think you can chart a course back to Voyager?
NAOMI: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]

(Paris is carrying a sleeping Naomi.)
PARIS: They're in a hurry.
SEVEN: Crewmen Boylen and White. Frequently late for their duty shifts.
PARIS: Speaking of late, I'll make a deal with you. I'll explain to Sam why her daughter's two hours late for bedtime, if you start on the survey report.
SEVEN: Acceptable.
PARIS: Have fun.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: You're back. I was beginning to worry.
SEVEN: The survey took longer than expected.
CHAKOTAY: Lucky our deuterium shortage is no longer an issue.
SEVEN: A wormhole.
KIM: The wormhole. It leads all the way back to Earth.
SEVEN: The odds of finding such a phenomenon are infinitesimal.
JANEWAY: Never bet against the house.
KIM: What are you doing?
SEVEN: Looking for anomalous readings.
TUVOK: You will find none.
CHAKOTAY: He's right. No subspatial contortions, no temporal variance. 
JANEWAY: The probe we sent in has already picked up faint signals from the other side. 
KIM: B'Elanna's still downloading them, but she's pretty sure they're from Starfleet.
SEVEN: This wormhole is only three hundred million kilometres away. Long range scans should have detected it days ago.
TUVOK: Perhaps it was an oversight on your part.
JANEWAY: If it'll make you feel better, run a diagnostic. In the meantime, let's maintain course.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: I completed my diagnostic. Sensors are operating at peak efficiency.
JANEWAY: Then there's nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: On the contrary. The wormhole's neutrino levels are extremely erratic.
JANEWAY: I thought so too, until I received this. It turns out those faint signals we detected were communiqu�s from Starfleet. They assure me the neutrino flux is nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: Starfleet may be in error. We should run further scans.
JANEWAY: No time. The wormhole might destabilise.
SEVEN: The Doctor often instructs me to look before I leap. It is an antiquated adage, but I believe it is relevant.
JANEWAY: I have another one for you. He who hesitates is lost.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I thin we're avoiding the real issue here, Seven. You're still feeling uncomfortable about returning to the Alpha Quadrant. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Trust me, you're going to thrive on Earth, just as you've thrived on Voyager. Yes?
CHAKOTAY: Letter number two. I'm getting jealous.
JANEWAY: Mark. Apparently his engagement was broken off. What about you, any news?
CHAKOTAY: A full pardon and reinstatement to Starfleet. I've even been offered a professorship in anthropology at the Academy.
JANEWAY: Oh, Chakotay, congratulations, but it's not fair.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, it's only part time.
JANEWAY: How can I be expected to manage the ship without you?
CHAKOTAY: You'll do fine.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Computer, access all logs entries recorded by Captain Janeway on Stardate 52542.
COMPUTER: Access to those files is restricted.
(Seven opens an access panel and presses a couple of buttons.)
COMPUTER: Access granted.
SEVEN: Play first log entry.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Captain's log, stardate 52542.3. Long range sensors have identified a wormhole leading to the Alpha quadrant. Unfortunately, secondary scans have revealed that it's some kind of elaborate deception. The question is, who's attempting to deceive us and why?
SEVEN: Play next log entry.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Captain's log, supplemental. We've begun to receive faint telemetry from our probe. I don't want to get the crew's hopes up but B'Elanna thinks it may be a message from Starfleet. I'm beginning to wonder if my earlier scepticism was justified.
SEVEN: Play next log entry.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Captain's Log, supplemental. I've set a course for the wormhole. With any luck, we should be back in the Alpha Quadrant in a matter of days.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Annika? Annika Hansen.
SEVEN: There is no one here by that name.
NEELIX: Are you sure, because I have a letter here addressed to her. I never realised you knew anyone from the Alpha Quadrant.
SEVEN: I don't.
NEELIX: Well, it looks like someone knows you. Who's it from?
SEVEN: Claudia Hansen. She claims to be a sister of my father.
NEELIX: Your aunt.
SEVEN: She is looking forward to meeting me.
NEELIX: That's great. Starfleet's appointed me Ambassador to the Lan'Tuana sector.
SEVEN: Ambassador?
NEELIX: I guess they thought I'd have a flair for quadrupeds.

[Mess hall]

SEVEN: Ensign, I require a moment of your time.
PARIS: Sure.
SEVEN: Have you noticed anything unusual about the crew's behaviour since we returned?
PARIS: Like?
SEVEN: When I presented the Captain with evidence that the wormhole may not be what it appears to be, she seemed unconcerned.
PARIS: Really? That doesn't sound like her.
SEVEN: I believe the crew is being deceived by false telemetry as well as overly-optimistic correspondence.
PARIS: The letters from home? I got one, too.
SEVEN: No doubt containing good news.
PARIS: Oh, I'll say. An old buddy of mine offered me a spot at the new test flight centre in Australia. Beautiful beaches, a chance to pilot the latest experimental ships. I can't believe it.
SEVEN: Then you doubt the veracity of the letters as well.
PARIS: Are you kidding? I've already written back and accepted the job.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: Computer, activate the EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: The wormhole is not what it appears to be. I believe that the crew is being
EMH: Hold on. Wormhole?
SEVEN: You weren't informed.
EMH: Not a peep.
SEVEN: Considering everyone's recent behaviour, that's not surprising. Since the discovery of this wormhole the crew has ignored obvious signs that it's a deception. You must determine if there is a physiological explanation.
CHAKOTAY [OC] Seven of Nine to the bridge.
SEVEN: On my way.
EMH: I'll call in a few crewmen for routine examinations. That should allow me to run the necessary diagnostics.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We've just entered visual range. I thought you'd like to take a look. We're starting to get images from the other side.
TUVOK: There is considerable interference.
KIM: I think I can help clear it up. Try it now.
(A blue and white planet.)
CHAKOTAY: How long until we reach the wormhole?
PARIS: Fifty three minutes.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, this is the bridge. Secure all systems.
JANEWAY: When we reach Earth's orbit, lay in a descent trajectory. North American continent. Starfleet Headquarters.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Computer, perform a gravimetric scan of the wormhole's interior. Look for inconsistencies in the spatial gradient.
COMPUTER: The anomaly is consistent with a Class one wormhole. No irregularities detected.
SEVEN: Recalibrate sensors and try again.
COMPUTER: No irregularities detected.
SEVEN: Isolate grid nine two five and magnify. Computer, is that a vessel in grid ninety one?
COMPUTER: No vessel has been detected.
SEVEN: Open a comm. channel.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
SEVEN: Alien vessel, this is the starship Voyager. Respond. Alien vessel.
QATAI [on screen]: Who are you?
SEVEN: Seven of Nine, Federation starship Voyager. Our ship is on an intercept course three point four light years from your position.
QATAI [on screen]: Turn around, you're being deceived.
SEVEN: How.
QATAI [on screen]: He knows what you want.
(The screen goes blank.)
SEVEN: Computer, identify the cause of the power failure. 
TUVOK: Captain's orders. Power from Astrometrics has been rerouted to the navigational array, at least until we've completed our journey through the wormhole.
SEVEN: I've made contact with a vessel inside the anomaly.
TUVOK: Starfleet?
SEVEN: Alien. The pilot attempted to warn us away.
TUVOK: Sensors show no record of an incoming transmission.
SEVEN: The sensors are malfunctioning. He said we were being deceived. The wormhole is not what it appears to be.
TUVOK: The preponderance of data suggests otherwise.
SEVEN: The data is flawed.
TUVOK: As is your reasoning.
SEVEN: May I ask you a personal question? Are you looking forward to seeing your wife and family?
TUVOK: Indeed.
SEVEN: And is that desire stronger than you expected it to be?
TUVOK: Your point.
SEVEN: I believe you are being manipulated. Someone or something is compromising your logic, otherwise you would be willing to listen to my concerns.
TUVOK: Access to the Astrometrics lab is restricted until further notice. Dismissed.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven investigates a noise.)
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman. Your presence here is unauthorised. State your intentions.
NAOMI: I'm hiding.
SEVEN: From whom?
NAOMI: Everyone. They're all acting strange. Even Mom.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
NAOMI: She keeps smiling all the time, talking about Earth like it's the greatest place in the universe.
SEVEN: You do not share your mother's desire to return to Earth?
NAOMI: Voyager's my home. If we go to Earth, I'll have to leave the ship. I'd miss my room, Neelix. You and I wouldn't be able to play Kadis-kot anymore.
SEVEN: Curious. You and I appear to be the only ones not affected.
NAOMI: Affected by what?
SEVEN: I am not certain. Stay here until I return.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: Computer, activate EMH.
PARIS: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: Where's the Doctor?
PARIS: Offline.
SEVEN: Why?
PARIS: Starfleet orders. Something about the wormhole interfering with the holographic systems. They didn't want to damage his programme.
SEVEN: He must be reactivated.
PARIS: No can do. Not until we're on the other side.
SEVEN: It's urgent.
PARIS: Believe it or not, I am capable of handling almost any medical problem you might have.

[Corridor]

(Chakotay and two security guards step out of a turbolift.)
CHAKOTAY: I was just coming to see you.
SEVEN: Why?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid I have some troubling news. Evidently, our wormhole passes through a layer of subspace monitored by the Borg. Starfleet's concerned that your neural transceiver might attract some unwanted attention. We need to deactivate your implants.
SEVEN: You should not attempt to do so without the Doctor's supervision.
CHAKOTAY: Unfortunately, he's offline.
SEVEN: Then the procedure is inadvisable.
CHAKOTAY: Try to relax. We're only going to keep you in stasis until we've reached the Alpha Quadrant. I realize the prospect of returning to Earth is frightening to you. It's perfectly natural for you to resist the unknown. But you're in good hands. Resistance is futile.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What's our distance, Tom?
PARIS: Two thousand kilometres and closing. Goodbye, Delta Quadrant.
KIM: No more Hirogen hunting parties, Malon garbage scows.
PARIS: By this time tomorrow it'll be Cardassians, Romulans, Ferengi.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I've spoken to Seven of Nine. We're putting her into stasis.
JANEWAY: Make it fast. We don't want the Borg to crash our welcome home party.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: I need to adjust my regeneration parameters. How long will I remain inactive?
CHAKOTAY: A couple of hours to be on the safe side.
(Seven sets up a forcefield and walks through it.)
CHAKOTAY: Security alert!
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Security's on their way, Chakotay. What happened?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven's trapped us behind some kind of Borg forcefield.
JANEWAY: Try to disable it.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY: Naomi, go back to your quarters.
SEVEN: Pay attention to me. If this indicator begins to flash enter the following series of commands. Watch carefully.
CHAKOTAY: Naomi.
SEVEN: Do you understand?
NAOMI: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: Naomi, I'm giving you a direct order. Step away from the console.

[Bridge]

KIM: She's blocking my commands.
JANEWAY: Keep trying.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven arms herself with a phaser rifle.)
SEVEN: Computer, lock onto my coordinates and initiate a site to site transport. Main Engineering.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Seven?
SEVEN: I'm sorry.
(Seven shoots Torres, then the other crew.)

[Bridge]

KIM: We've got phaser fire in Engineering.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Computer, erect a level ten forcefield around Engineering. Lock out the command controls of Borg encryption code two nine four.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Seven's tapping into the engine manifold. She's trying to shut down impulse drive.

[Engineering]

TUVOK: Bridge, she has erected another forcefield. It'll require 

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: Several minutes to deactivate it.
JANEWAY: Where is she, exactly?
KIM: Engineering console sixteen beta. Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm sending an EM surge to that station. Seven's going into stasis whether she likes it or not.

[Engineering]

(The energy surge knocks Seven down.)
TUVOK: She's down, Captain.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, we're at the threshold.
JANEWAY: Take us in.
(But they are entering the lightning nebula, not the tranquil blue wormhole that they can see. It is a rough ride.)
JANEWAY: Report?
PARIS: It's just spatial turbulence.
JANEWAY: It's beautiful. Steady as she goes.
(Neelix sees Starfleet Admirals in a corridor, smiling and waiting to shake hands with him. Janeway, Kim and Paris see Earth turning beneath the ship. In reality, there is nothing there except a giant tunnel with energy playing around it. Everyone is unconscious. Tuvok dreams that he is meeting his wife, T'Pel, in a corridor

[Engineering]

(Naomi carefully steps over unconscious crew in the corridors. She has a cut on her face, and walks straight into the forcefield in Engineering.)
NAOMI: Seven, wake up. Seven of Nine, wake up! Forcefield?
(Seven lets her through.)
SEVEN: You are damaged.
NAOMI: It's just a scrape. 
SEVEN: The crew?
NAOMI: Unconscious, sort of.
SEVEN: Our hull is demolecularising.
NAOMI: Do wormholes do that?
SEVEN: No, they don't. Return to your quarters while I assess the situation.
NAOMI: But I can help. My mom says two heads are better than one. Isn't that the Borg philosophy too?
SEVEN: Simplistic, but accurate.
NAOMI: Please, I don't want to be alone.

[Corridor]

NAOMI: Neelix! Oh, Neelix.
SEVEN: He will survive.
NAOMI: Neelix.
SEVEN: We must keep moving. Naomi Wildman. We will return for him.
(Naomi reaches out her arms to Seven, who picks her up and carries her. They pass a row of windows.)
NAOMI: I don't think that's Earth.
SEVEN: No.
NAOMI: So where are we?

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've restored partial systems. I'm reading organic compounds, bioplasmic discharges, a vast network of neural pathways.
NAOMI: Is it a lifeform?
SEVEN: If it is, it's the largest I've seen. Over two thousand kilometres in diameter.
NAOMI: What are you doing?
SEVEN: My earlier scans revealed a vessel. I'm trying to find it again.
NAOMI: Somebody else is stuck here?
SEVEN: Possibly. There. It's heavily damaged but still functioning. Alien vessel, respond.

[Qatai's ship]

SEVEN [OC]: This is the starship Voyager. Please respond.
QATAI: I told you to stay away. Why didn't you listen?
SEVEN [on monitor]: Our crew believed they were returning to their homes.

[Astrometrics lab]

QATAI [on screen]: Everything they've always wanted, correct?
SEVEN: Yes.
QATAI [on screen]: He deceived them.
NAOMI: He?
SEVEN: I believe we should work together to escape this anomaly. Lower your shields and I'll beam you aboard.
QATAI [on screen]: Shields are the only things holding my ship together. I'd be destroyed.
SEVEN: I will enhance your shield emitters.
QATAI [on screen]: You won't fool me that easily.
SEVEN: I assure you we are not a deception.
QATAI [on screen]: Oh, how convenient, an enormous starship comes to my rescue. You might try a more subtle approach.
SEVEN: My scans indicate that your shields will fail in approximately fifteen minutes. Join us, or you can remain on your vessel secure in the knowledge that you were not deceived. But that knowledge will do you little good when you are dead. Decide now.
QATAI [on screen]: All right. All right, I'm taking my shields down.
(Seven beams Qatai into the astrometrics lab. He pinches Naomi's arm.)
NAOMI: Ow!
QATAI: You look real enough. But over the years, he's made me believe many things are real. A fortune at my fingertips, good friends risen from the dead.
SEVEN: You're referring to the anomaly we've entered.
QATAI: Anomaly? It's a beast! Cunning, deadly.
SEVEN: What does it want?
QATAI: You. Your ship. Antimatter, biomatter. He consumes it.
SEVEN: Everyone believed it was a wormhole.
QATAI: Telepathy. Psychogenic manipulation. He senses your thoughts, your desires, and then he preys on them.
NAOMI: Like a pitcher plant.
QATAI: Pitcher plant?
NAOMI: The Doctor taught me about it in botany class. It catches insects by mimicking pheromones.
QATAI: Yes, you're right, but this one doesn't eat insects. He eats starships.
SEVEN: You are familiar with this lifeform.
QATAI: Familiar? I�ve been hunting it for nearly forty years.
SEVEN: And have you become impervious to its telepathy?
QATAI: Almost, but there are days when he can still trick me. Like yesterday. I thought I had found a way to kill him once and for all. I'd allow him to begin consuming my ship and then I'd fly directly to his most vulnerable system, his primary neural plexus. Boom! I'd destroy him from the inside out. But he knew. He showed me what I wanted to see. I was nowhere near his neural plexus. I was flying directly into his digestion chamber. And speaking of digestion.
NAOMI: How do we get out of the monster?
SEVEN: It's not a monster, it's a bioplasmic organism, and we will find a way out.
QATAI: No, the girl's right. He's a monster, and the only way out is to destroy him.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
QATAI: Your ship is being devoured. I'd say that's an emergency.
NAOMI: The monster ate his ship, too.
EMH: Monster?
QATAI: I want to see your weapons manifest.
EMH: Weapons? This is a Sickbay, not an arsenal. What's going on?
SEVEN: Voyager has been lured into the digestive chamber of a bioplasmic organism. We require your assistance in charting an escape route.
EMH: Slow down. The last thing I remember I was speaking to Mister Paris. He said the wormhole posed a threat to my programme.
QATAI: The beast has been manipulating your crew. The moment he realised you were beginning to suspect something, he made sure you were deactivated.
EMH: And who might you be, the local monster expert?
QATAI: As a matter of fact I am. He's been fooling you for days, creating false sensor readings, and he's been altering your crew's thought patterns. A little neurogenic telepathy to make them lower their guard.
EMH: That might explain the heightened dopamine levels I found during my routine examinations of the crew. Have you informed the Captain?
NAOMI: She's asleep.
EMH: Asleep?
SEVEN: It's our proximity to the creature. The neurogenic field is stronger here. It's already rendered most of the crew unconscious. Does your vessel's database contain information on the creature's anatomy?
QATAI: Of course.
SEVEN: Retrieve it.
EMH: In the meantime, let's work on a wake-up call for the crew.
(Torres is on a biobed with a cortical inhibitor on her neck.)
EMH: Computer, increase neurotransmitter levels by twenty nine percent. 
QATAI: A cortical inhibitor?
EMH: I thought it might disrupt the organism's hold on her.
QATAI: It won't. I already tried a similar procedure.
EMH: I don't remember asking for a second opinion. It's working. She's regaining consciousness.
TORRES: Doctor?
EMH: You're being exposed to a powerful neurogenic field. You've been unconscious for several hours.
TORRES: They're here.
EMH: Who?
TORRES: The Maquis, they're alive!
EMH: B'Elanna, you're still on Voyager. You're hallucinating.
TORRES: Starfleet thinks you've all been killed.
EMH: Computer, increase neurotransmitter levels by another ten percent. B'Elanna, focus on my voice. 
QATAI: She doesn't want to.
(The EMH knocks Torres out again.)
QATAI: They never want to.

[Medical lab]

QATAI: It's the silence I hate. The way he takes you without a fight. It was the same way with the Nokaro. A crew of nearly three thousand. Families mostly, mine included, looking for a New World to settle. But they came across our friend here and he showed them what they wanted to see. A glistening green paradise. By the time I responded to their distress call, all that was left of them was some fading engine emissions. That was thirty nine years ago. Thirty nine years, two weeks, four days.
EMH: Do you mind? The situation is dismal enough.
QATAI: I�m just trying to explain who we're up against.
EMH: Well, I�m getting a pretty good idea on my own. Judging by these bioscans, the organism's been devouring life forms for a bit longer than thirty nine years. I'd estimate it's at least two hundred thousand years old.
QATAI: The intelligent always survive.
EMH: I wouldn't go that far. It appears to operate on highly evolved instinct. I haven't detected any signs of sentience.
QATAI: Oh he's intelligent, all right. Smart enough to fool your crew into taking you offline.
EMH: No need to get personal.

[Sickbay]

(Another shudder wakes Naomi.)
NAOMI: Seven?
SEVEN: I�m here.
NAOMI: Are we still inside the monster?
SEVEN: Yes, but we are going to find a way out.
QATAI [OC]: There. This is it. Exactly what we need.

[Medical lab]

QATATI: These class nine torpedoes in your weapons manifest. If we can bring your vessel deeper into the creature's digestive tract and detonate one of these charges, we might be able to destroy it.
EMH: Starfleet's not in the habit of killing lifeforms.
QATAI: Even if that lifeform is about to kill you?
EMH: If I could take a few hours to examine the creature more thoroughly
SEVEN: There is no time.
QATAI: We kill him!
EMH: Maybe there's another way.
SEVEN: Explain.
EMH: Any living organism, no matter how large, will attempt to expel a foreign body. If we could just make Voyager a little less tasty?
SEVEN: My scans indicate that your weapons are tetryon based. If you were to fire one at a pocket of antimatter released from our warp core, it would produce an electrolytic reaction.
NAOMI: Would that make Voyager taste bad?
QATAI: It might at that.

[Transporter room]

EMH: Once I�ve beamed you back to your ship, try adjusting your shields to this frequency. You'll find them more resistant to the bioplasmic discharges.
QATAI: You seem to know a little about everything. Medicine, exobiology, shield harmonics.
EMH: I�m something of a renaissance EMH.
QATAI: I could use a crewmate like you. The beast would have a difficult time manipulating a hologram's desires.
EMH: An Ishmael to your Ahab? No, thank you.
QATAI: You're turning down the hunt of a lifetime?
EMH: As appealing as that sounds, I�m a Doctor, not a dragon slayer. My programme requires that I do no harm.
QATAI: Shame.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Qatai's vessel is ready.
EMH: I�ve rerouted bridge controls to Engineering. Ops, tactical, helm, all integrated into one station.
SEVEN: Efficient.
EMH: I thought you'd like it.
SEVEN: I�m plotting a course for the organism's oesophageal aperture. Prepare to release the antimatter. Hull integrity's dropped another thirteen percent. Doctor?
EMH: Ready on my end.
SEVEN: Voyager to Qatai. Prepare to fire.

[Qatai's ship]

QATAI: Wait, wait. No, no, no, no, no.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: What's wrong?
QATAI [OC: That last jolt

[Qatai's ship]

QATAI: Must have destabilised my targeting sensor.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: I could establish an interface to Voyager's targeting array.
QATAI [OC]: Don't bother. I know my ship. It's just being stubborn.

[Qatai's ship]

QATAI: Ready.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Initiate the burst on my mark. Now.

[Qatai's ship]

(Voyager releases its gas, and Qatai shoots at it. The gas ignites.)
QATAI: Like the taste of that?

[Engineering]

EMH: I�m reading violent contractions throughout the digestive chamber. It's working. We're moving back through the oesophageal aperture!
SEVEN: Voyager has been expelled. We're three point nine kilometres from the organism.
EMH: After just one burst? For a big fellow he certainly has a low tolerance for tummy ache.
SEVEN: Qatai's vessel was also released.
EMH: Hail him.
QATAI [on monitor]: Why haven't you ejected a second burst?
SEVEN: We've cleared the organism.
QATAI [on monitor]: You've been deceived. We're both still inside it.
EMH: He's right. I'm reading bioplasmic energy.
SEVEN: I am impervious to the creature's influence.
EMH: You were impervious, when it was creating the illusion of Voyager getting home, because you didn't share that desire. But now we're trying to escape, which is what you want.
QATAI [on monitor]: Think about it. He's showing you exactly what you want to see.
EMH: Seven!
SEVEN: Initiate another antimatter burst. Now. Fire.
(The creature's mouth opens and the two spaceships come hurtling out.)
QATAI [on monitor]: We're out.
SEVEN: Are we certain?
EMH: No sign of bioplasmic energy. We've escaped.
SEVEN: I�m taking us out of range. Maximum warp.
EMH: I'd better see to the crew.
QATAI [on monitor]: Well, I'll be on my way. Thanks for your help.
SEVEN: Your engines have taken heavy damage. You require our assistance.
QATAI [on monitor]: No time. The beast is already altering course. I�ll handle repairs myself.
SEVEN: The procedure would take several days.
QATAI [on monitor]: Don't worry about me. Just get your ship home. And watch out for pitcher plants.

[Bridge]

(The crew are waking up on their own.)
JANEWAY: Location?
PARIS: We're still in the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Scan the wormhole. Find out what went wrong.
PARIS: It's gone. I can't find it on sensors.
KIM: Captain, bridge controls have been routed to Engineering. Ops, tactical, helm, all of it.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
SEVEN [OC]: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven? What's going on?

[Engineering]

SEVEN: The Doctor will explain. I will file a complete report in the morning, after I have regenerated.

Captain's log, 52542.3. we've deployed a series of beacons to warn other vessels about the bioplasmic creature and resumed a course for home. Our real home.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Seven enters to find Naomi at the console.)
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: Don't worry. My presence here is authorised.
SEVEN: By whom?
NAOMI: Mom. She thinks I need to learn more about Earth.
SEVEN: I see. And does studying this image increase your desire to go there?
NAOMI: Not really.
SEVEN: I concur. It is unremarkable.
NAOMI: But my mom likes it, and even Neelix can't wait to get there, so I guess it can't be that bad.
SEVEN: Given this crew's determination to return home, I have no doubt we will see it for ourselves someday.
(Once more, Qatai flies towards his nemesis, his white whale.)


S5 E15
Dark Frontier Part 1
Stardate: 52619.2
Original Airdate: 17 February 1999

[Borg Probe Vessel]
BORG [OC]: A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid one one six. Activate. Alter course to intercept.
(Borg drones start to go about their business.)
BORG [OC]: Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, Intrepid Class, one hundred forty three lifeforms. Prepare for assimilation. We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Break off your pursuit or we'll open fire.
BORG [OC]: Irrelevant.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Is it? You've scanned our vessel. You know we can match your firepower.
BORG [OC]: You will be assimilated.
(They fire at Voyager, with no effect. Voyager returns fire, and makes things go Bang!)
BORG [OC]: Regenerate primary shield matrix. Remodulate weapons.
(A photon torpedo is beamed inside the Borg vessel.)
BORG [OC]:  Security breach. Starfleet photon torpedo. Disarm weapon.
(A drone opens the casing. KaBOOM!)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I thought we were trying to disable it.
SEVEN: The torpedo detonated near the power matrix. It caused a chain reaction.
JANEWAY: Survivors?.
TUVOK: None.
JANEWAY: Debris status.
KIM: There's a few components intact, but they're badly damaged.
JANEWAY: Begin a salvage operation.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: There might be something we can use. Weapons, a transwarp coil. I don't know about the rest of you, but I feel lucky today.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The savage operation has yielded lots of pieces.)
JANEWAY: Now, this is how I prefer the Borg. In pieces.
CHAKOTAY: Eight kilotons of debris, most of it hull fragments. So far we've recovered two power nodes and a dozen plasma conduits, all in working order.
JANEWAY: Their propulsion system, anything left?
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna found a transwarp coil.
(Janeway picks up a metal sphere.)
JANEWAY: It's lighter than I expected. It must be some kind of polytrinic alloy. Let's hope our little skirmish got back to the hive mind. Maybe they'll think twice before they attack us again.
CHAKOTAY: It was only a probe. Next time, we might not be so lucky.
KIM: Captain, don't touch that.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know, but a few minutes ago it was crawling around the floor. I think it's some kind of auto-regeneration unit.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning. By my count, we've added at least two years to our journey by avoiding the Borg. I'm tired of turning tail every time we detect a Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Better safe than assimilated,
JANEWAY: Mmm.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should go to red alert and get it over with.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You're about to drop one of your bombshells.
JANEWAY: Now what makes you say that?  
CHAKOTAY: The way you fiddle with your com. badge. You do it every time.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have to keep an eye on that.
EMH: Eureka! I was hoping to find one of these. It's a servo-armature from a medical repair drone. Laser scalpel, biomolecular scanner, micro-suture, all rolled into one instrument.
PARIS: No Federation Sickbay should be without one.
EMH: This could revolutionise the way that I perform surgery.
JANEWAY: Excellent. Why don't you deactivate it for now?
TORRES: Remodulate the coil frequency.
SEVEN: No effect.
TORRES: Try again.
SEVEN: The field regulator is fused.
CHAKOTAY: What seems to be the problem?
TORRES: We can't activate the transwarp coil.
SEVEN: When a Borg vessel is critically damaged, all of its vital technology self-destructs. The coil is beyond repair.
CHAKOTAY: At least the Doctor found a new toy.
SEVEN: Captain. Datanodes. One of them is a drone manifest, the other contains tactical information.
CHAKOTAY: Specifically?
SEVEN: Long range sensor telemetry, assimilation logistics and vessel movements for a radius of thirty light years.
JANEWAY: Well, let's take a look.
SEVEN: I'll need to convert the information to Starfleet parameters.
JANEWAY: Time?
SEVEN: Two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: After nine hours staring at that debris, I was beginning to feel like a drone.
KIM: I could use a shower.
PARIS: Do Borg shower? Neelix, we need a couple of beers.
NEELIX: Name your malt.
PARIS: Ktarian. Replicate a pint for yourself, because we're going to toast the man of the hour.
NEELIX: Oh?
PARIS: It was Harry's idea to beam over a photon torpedo while they were remodulating their shields.
KIM: I didn't think they'd fall for it.
PARIS: Ah, but they did. Hook, line and sinker. Oh, I would have loved to have seen the look on their faces. Boom!
KIM: To be honest, I wish the boom had been a bit smaller. We were only trying to disable them.
(Seven enters.)
PARIS: They were drones, Harry. Mindless automatons. We did them a favour.
KIM: Seven.
PARIS: Look, I didn't mean anything by that.
SEVEN: Your apology is irrelevant. It is impossible to offend a mindless drone.
(Neelix delivers the beers, which have massive foam heads on them.)
PARIS: Cheers.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I was able to recover sixty two percent of the data. This is an isogrid of Borg tactical movements across twenty five sectors.
JANEWAY: Are there any dangers along our present course?
SEVEN: There are three Cubes approximately nine light years away, travelling on a trajectory parallel to our own. They do not pose a threat.
JANEWAY: What about that vessel?
SEVEN: It's a scout ship, eight light years away, travelling at warp two. The ship is heavily damaged.
TUVOK: Was it attacked?
SEVEN: No. An ion storm. The Sphere is presently regenerating. That explains why it is travelling at low warp.
JANEWAY: Limping home.
SEVEN: In a manner of speaking.
JANEWAY: I want a detailed schematic of this vessel, down to the power distribution nodes. I think we've just struck gold.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: So what we have here in two simple words is, Fort Knox.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: Tom, translate?
PARIS: Fort Knox. The largest repository of gold bullion in Earth's history. Over fifty metric tons worth over nine trillion U.S. dollars.
JANEWAY: Keep going.
PARIS: Well, er, when the new world economy took shape in the late twenty second century and money went the way of the dinosaur, Fort Knox was turned into a museum.
JANEWAY: And no one ever managed to break into that facility, right?
PARIS: Well, a couple of Ferengi tried about ten years ago, but other than that, it's considered impenetrable.
CHAKOTAY: Are you planning a heist?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact. Except we're not chasing gold. We're going to steal a transwarp coil. Think it might come in handy?
TORRES: If I could equip our engines with even one coil, we could shave about twenty years off this trip.
TUVOK: Do you believe the Borg sphere is damaged enough for us to penetrate its defences?
JANEWAY: Long enough to take what we want and get out in one piece. but we'd have to plan this operation down to the millisecond. There would be no margin for error. As I see it, we plan an intercept course that won't attract their attention, then create a diversion to keep them occupied so we can send in an away team to obtain the technology.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to see the data on that Sphere. We might be able to recreate parts of it on the holodeck, run a few tactical simulations.
JANEWAY: It's all yours.
TORRES: We need to mask our warp signature. I've got a few Maquis tricks up my sleeve. They're not exactly Starfleet approved, but.
JANEWAY: This is no time for protocol. Get started. The sphere is three days away by maximum warp. Set a course. Chakotay, I want an outline for our heist by tomorrow morning. We've proven ourselves against the Borg once before, twice before, but we're always the ones under attack. I think it's time to do a little assimilating of our own, hmm? Dismissed.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I was hoping you'd be a little more vocal. Any thoughts?
SEVEN: Your plan is ambitious. There are many variables. But it can succeed.
JANEWAY: I'd like to narrow that list of variables. I was hoping your parents might provide us with a few insights. I've been looking over the records we found on the U.S.S. Raven. Your parents kept extensive field notes, detailed journals. There are over nine thousand log entries alone.
SEVEN: The information is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: On the contrary, Seven. They spent their careers studying the Borg. They tracked a cube at close range for what, two years?
SEVEN: Three.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say that made them experts. I want you to study their research. Look for any data that might give us a tactical edge.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated. Obviously their tactics were flawed.
JANEWAY: Look, these records have been collecting dust in our database for over a year. You say they're irrelevant, and I say you've been avoiding them. You're the best person for the job, but I'll assign it to Chakotay if I
SEVEN: No. The information belongs to me. I will read it.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Neelix brings in a case of PADDs.)
SEVEN: You're late.
NEELIX: Sorry. It took longer than I expected to download these records. This is only the first batch. Your parents sure had a lot to say. I organised the information by category. Field notes, personal logs, biokinetic analyses. I don't mean to pry, but is it true your parents were studying the Borg?
SEVEN: Yes. The Hansens were exobiologists.
NEELIX: Fascinating. They must have been very courageous.
SEVEN: They were misguided.
NEELIX: A faded holo-image. That's all I've got left of my family. A picture of my sister. Except, of course, what I keep in here. (his heart) What I wouldn't give for a treasure trove like this. Well, I'd better get started on the rest of those files.
(Neelix leaves. Seven takes the first PADD.)
MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32611.4. It's about time. The Federation Council on Exobiology has given us final approval. Starfleet's still concerned about security issues but they've agreed not to stand in our way. We've said our goodbyes, and we're ready to start chasing our theories about the Borg.

[Annika's room]

(Little Annika is playing with a model of a Borg Cube.)
ANNIKA: Zoom, zoom.
MAGNUS: Ah, ah, ah, put down the cube, Muffin. It's not a toy.
ANNIKA: I won't crash it.
MAGNUS: Come here, Daddy wants to talk to you. Now, remember when I said that you, me and Mommy were going on a very long voyage?
ANNIKA: Ah ha.
MAGNUS: Well, we're leaving tomorrow and we won't see Earth for quite a while.
ANNIKA: Are we going to see the Borg?
MAGNUS: If we're lucky.
ANNIKA: Do the Borg have kids, too?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows. We'll be the first humans to study them up close.
ANNIKA: What do they look like?
MAGNUS: We're not sure exactly, but we think they might look a lot like us, but with technology inside their bodies.
ANNIKA: Cy-ber-netic?
MAGNUS: Mmm hmm.
ANNIKA: Are they friendly?
MAGNUS: Well, they're different. They don't talk like us, or even think like us, but we're hoping to make friends one day.
ANNIKA: I hope so, too, Daddy.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32623.5: we've been tracking stray readings for nearly eight months now, but there's still no sign of a vessel. I'm beginning to wonder if the Borg are nothing more than rumour and sensor echoes.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Magnus.
MAGNUS: We have to keep moving. If we take the replicators offline and run environmental systems at half power, we can go another twenty light years before refuelling.
ERIN: We should refuel now. The nearest dilithium is in an asteroid field just ten days from here.
MAGNUS: That's ten days we can't afford to lose. We're getting close. If we stop now, we might as well just turn around and go home.
ERIN: Home, to what? We have deviated from our flight plan, crossed the Neutral Zone, disobeyed a direct order to return. Our colleagues obviously think we are insane. We have burned our bridges, Magnus.
(Annika enters.)
ANNIKA: I can't sleep.
MAGNUS: Come here. Why can't Annika sleep? The greatest scientific mystery of our time.
ERIN: I have a hypothesis. Her noisy parents are keeping her up.
MAGNUS: Hmm. Sounds plausible.  
(Beep, beep.)
ERIN: Tri-quantum waves, six hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow.
MAGNUS: Subspace disruptions, field magnitude two point nine teracochranes and rising. Annika, bed.
ERIN: Power utilisation curve is highly symmetric.
MAGNUS: Artificial source probability point nine eight. (to Annika) Now. It's got to be a transwarp conduit. Nothing else could generate these readings. I'm taking us closer.
ERIN: It's a Borg Cube, two thousand kilometres starboard.
MAGNUS: I've got a visual.
ERIN: It's massive. Twenty eight cubic kilometres, hundred and twenty nine thousand lifeforms on board. We're being scanned. They haven't altered course.
MAGNUS: This could prove our theory. They ignore any lifeform until they consider it a threat, or a target. They're moving off.
ERIN: Let's match their course and speed. Keep a distance of five million kilometres.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven of Nine to the bridge.  
SEVEN: On my way.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Have we been detected?
KIM: No, ma'am.
TUVOK: I have a visual.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
(The Borg Sphere has bits missing.)
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they took a real beating.
JANEWAY: They could still pose a threat. Let's not get too close. Match their course and speed. Keep a distance of ten million kilometres.  
(Seven enters.)
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven, scan the vessel. I want to know their current status.
SEVEN: Their weapons array is regenerating, but shields and transwarp drive are still offline.
JANEWAY: How long until they have transwarp?
SEVEN: Approximately seventy two hours. 
JANEWAY: We may not get this opportunity again, and I don't intend to miss it. Whatever it takes, double shifts, round the clock simulations, I want to be ready.
(Seven is walking through the Borg Sphere carrying a pattern enhancer, and Janeway is behind her with a phaser rifle. Tuvok and Kim are another team. The clock is down to 1:36 and counting.)
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to away teams. You're six seconds behind schedule.

[Borg Sphere]

TUVOK: We are at the shield matrix. Stand by.
KIM: The primary shield generator. I've got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges. Here, there and there.
(Seven and Janeway arrive at their target.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: You've got fifty five seconds.

[Borg Sphere]

TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway. Charges set. We're returning to the transport coordinates.
SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.
TUVOK: Activate the charges.
JANEWAY: Bridge, their shields are down. Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Tom?
PARIS: I've got a lock.

[Borg Sphere]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Target obtained.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: You're out of time.

[Borg Sphere]

(Tuvok shoots one Borg, Kim another. But when it is Janeway's turn, the phaser rifle has no effect.)
JANEWAY: They've adapted. This way. (Seven doesn't move.) Seven!
(Tuvok spots Janeway and Seven approaching.)
TUVOK: Bridge, stand by for transport.
KIM: Hurry!
TUVOK: Energise.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I've got them. Transporter room one.
(Three Borg arrive on the bridge.)
CHAKOTAY: Beam them out of here.
PARIS: I can't get a lock. They've adapted to our transport frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme, both holodecks. What happened?
PARIS: They tapped into our transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to holodeck two. We got the transwarp coil

[Holodeck - Transporter room]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: But we also picked up some uninvited guests.
JANEWAY: What was our time?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Two minutes twelve seconds.
JANEWAY: Twelve seconds too late. Once we disable their sensor grid we only have two minutes until it regenerates.

[Holodeck - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Did you run into any problems?

[Holodeck - Transporter room]

TUVOK: None.
SEVEN: We were efficient.
KIM: What if we beam directly into the transwarp chamber?
JANEWAY: There's too much shielding.
TUVOK: Perhaps we could modify our transporters?
JANEWAY: I've already explored that option. It won't work. 
KIM: Twelve seconds. Might as well be an eternity.
SEVEN: The Hansens. They were able to remain inside a Borg cube for several hours without being detected.
KIM: How?
SEVEN: I'm not certain.
JANEWAY: Well, keep investigating.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: We've run enough simulations for one day. Let's work on refining our tactics, anything we can do to shave a few more seconds off our little heist. Computer, end programme.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I don't know about you but I'm glad to be back on Voyager. Borg vessels make my skin crawl.
SEVEN: It was a holodeck recreation.
JANEWAY: Close enough. We just spent the last three hours dodging drones. It didn't bother you?
SEVEN: Your point.
JANEWAY: You seemed a little nervous in there.
SEVEN: The last time I was on a Borg vessel, I was a drone. The recreation was unsettling.
JANEWAY: You were reluctant to look at your parents' research and now I sense you're a little reluctant to go on this mission. Maybe I'm pushing you too fast.
SEVEN: I'll adapt.
JANEWAY: It's easier said than done. It's been over two years since you came face to face with the Collective. Are you sure you're up to it? I need everybody working at peak efficiency.
SEVEN: You doubt my ability to function.
JANEWAY: No, I'm simply voicing my concerns.
SEVEN: They are unjustified.
JANEWAY: I hope so, because the next time we won't be on the holodeck.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven opens another box of PADDs. She gets a visitor.)
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I had a bad dream. Can I stay with you for a while?
SEVEN: Where is your mother?
NAOMI: She's working in Engineering, and Neelix is on a duty shift. Please? I won't bother you.
SEVEN: Very well.
NAOMI: It looked just like this.
SEVEN: What did?
NAOMI: In my dream. There was Borg stuff everywhere.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
NAOMI: I went on the mission. The one my Mom told me about, the Borg Sphere? But it didn't work. Everybody got assimilated.
SEVEN: Nightmares are caused by irrational fear. They're not real. They can't damage you. Try to ignore it.
NAOMI: Mom said we're going to steal something.
SEVEN: A transwarp coil.
NAOMI: Will you be on the Sphere?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Are you scared?
SEVEN: We will succeed.
NAOMI: But what if you don't? What if they make you a drone again?
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, you agreed not to bother me.
NAOMI: What's it like to be a drone? Does it hurt?
SEVEN: You will terminate this line of questioning.
NAOMI: Do the Borg have kids? What do they look like? Are they friendly?
SEVEN: Return to your quarters immediately.
NAOMI: Resistance is futile.
(A Borg node pops out of Naomi's face. A drone steps out of a regeneration chamber.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Security. Intruder alert.
QUEEN [OC]: They can't hear you.
SEVEN: Who are you?
QUEEN [OC]: I am the Borg. Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one, you've become weak.
SEVEN: This is a dream. I'm regenerating.
QUEEN [OC]: It's not a dream. We've accessed your neural transceiver. Our thoughts are one. We know about Voyager's plan to invade the Sphere. It will fail.
SEVEN: If that's true, then why haven't you assimilated them?
QUEEN [OC]: We've come to make you an offer. Rejoin the Collective and we'll spare Voyager.
SEVEN: Why me?
QUEEN [OC]: Because you are unique.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32629.4: after three months of tracking our Borg cube, the vessel entered a transwarp conduit. We followed in its wake. Our sensors tell us we've travelled all the way to the Delta quadrant, the Borg's native territory.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Magnus, you're breaking up.
MAGNUS [on monitor]: Just some bio-electric interference. Stand by. Is that better?
ERIN: Much. How's Junior?

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: He took a real beating when that plasma conduit blew out. He's regenerating. Wait a minute, something's happening. Bill and Needle Fingers just arrived. This is odd. They're making repairs to Junior.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: I thought drones from different subunits didn't interact.
MAGNUS [OC]: Looks like we were wrong.

[Borg Cube]

(Junior falls to the deck.)
MAGNUS: They deactivated him.
ERIN [OC]: Why?
MAGNUS: Maybe he was too badly damaged. They're dismantling him. They must be salvaging the components.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Your bio-dampener is losing power. It's time to come home.
MAGNUS [OC]: I've got another minute or so. Stand by.

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: We may not get another chance to observe this behaviour.

[Medical lab]

SEVEN: It prevented the Borg from detecting them. They referred to it as a bio-dampener. The device creates a field around the body, which simulates the physiometric conditions within a Borg vessel.
TUVOK: Camouflage.
SEVEN: Precisely.
TUVOK: We need four of these devices. How soon can you replicate them?
EMH: I'll have to tailor each unit to its user's physiology. A few hours at least.
TUVOK: Begin immediately. I'll inform the Captain.
EMH: Ingenious design.
SEVEN: The Hansens were resourceful.
EMH: Sounds like you're warming up to your folks.
SEVEN: It was merely an observation.
EMH: This is an important stage of your social development, Seven. Try not to think of it as simply a research project, but as an exploration of how you were raised.
SEVEN: My parents underestimated the Collective. They were destroyed. Because of their arrogance, I was raised by Borg.

Captain's log, supplemental. Operation Fort Knox is ready to proceed. All departments are standing by and I've given the order to begin at oh six hundred hours.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Coffee? You look like you could use some.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: It's a human vice you might want to try one day. Keeps you sharp.
SEVEN: One day.
JANEWAY: I've been fine-tuning our game plan for tomorrow morning, and I've decided to reassign you to the bridge.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm concerned about Voyager's safety, and if the Sphere decides to attack I'll need your expertise at Tactical.
SEVEN: I should be on the away team.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna will do just fine in your place.
SEVEN: You may encounter unexpected obstacles. Forcefields, encryption codes. I'm the only member of this crew who can anticipate them.
JANEWAY: You underestimate the rest of us.
SEVEN: And you underestimate the Borg.
JANEWAY: This is more than just a question of tactics. I'm concerned about your well-being, and your ability to perform on this mission.
SEVEN: Your concern is unwarranted.
JANEWAY: Is it? I'm not the only one who's worried about you. Chakotay, Neelix, the Doctor, we've all noticed changes in your behaviour. You are preoccupied, agitated, and you're making mistakes. Don't get me wrong. I appreciate your efforts, and we couldn't have come this far without your help, but it's obviously taken its toll. If I'd realised how those journals were going to affect you, I never would have pushed you to read them. And I'm not about to ask you to face the Collective in your present frame of mind.
SEVEN: The past several days have been difficult. But I must join the away team, and I assure you I will not make another mistake.
JANEWAY: I've made my decision, Seven.
SEVEN: If I don't go, this mission will fail.
JANEWAY: You sound awfully certain about that.
SEVEN: I know the Borg.
JANEWAY: And I know you. There's more to what you're saying. What's wrong?
SEVEN: Over the past two years, I have become familiar with the individuals on this vessel. Voyager is my Collective now. Your survival is important to me. I am willing to risk my own well-being if it increases our chances of success. Assign me to the away team. Please. (Janeway nods.) Thank you.
JANEWAY: Seven. You've made remarkable progress as an individual and as a member of this crew. For what it's worth, Voyager wouldn't be the same without you.

BORG [OC]: A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid zero three. Activate.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG [OC]: Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, class two shuttlecraft. Three lifeforms.

[Bridge]

TORRES: The Sphere is maintaining course.
CHAKOTAY: Move the shuttle in closer.
PARIS: The Borg are still ignoring it.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Transporter room two.

[Transporter Room]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: They're not taking the bait.
JANEWAY: Shuttle status?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All systems go. False bioreadings are holding steady.
KIM: How about a phaser shot across their bow. Might grab their attention.
SEVEN: No. The shuttle would be perceived as a threat and they'd destroy it.
JANEWAY: Commander, increase the energy output of the shuttle's warp profile.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: That should present a more inviting target.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG [OC]: Warp signature detected. Prepare for assimilation. Relevant technology. Engage tractor pulse.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They've got it. They're pulling it in toward a docking port along the central radius. Five hundred metres, two hundred. They're dropping shields.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.
TORRES: They're in.
EMH: Bio-dampeners are stable. They're as good as invisible.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere?
TORRES: The shields are back up. They're assimilating the shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a sensor lock on the away team. Maintain course.

[Borg Sphere]

(Seven is given an image of herself as a Borg in a regeneration chamber.)
QUEEN [OC]: Never forget who you are.
JANEWAY: Seven, are you all right?
SEVEN: Proceed.
KIM: Primary shield generator. Got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges here, there and there.
(Janeway and Seven arrive at the transwarp coil.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway, charges set. Returning to transport coordinates.
SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.
TUVOK: Activate the charges.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Lock onto the coil and energise.

[Borg Sphere]

(Seven watches the coil being beamed away.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Target obtained. 
QUEEN [OC]: Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Seven, keep moving!
SEVEN: No. I wish to stay. I intend to rejoin the Collective.
JANEWAY: I can't let you do that.
SEVEN: You have no choice.
JANEWAY: Keep moving. That's an order.
(A forcefield flickers into existence between Janeway and Seven.)
SEVEN: Go!
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to away team.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The sphere has detected Voyager. They've altered course to intercept and they're charging weapons. We've got to get you out of there now.
PARIS: Four hundred thousand kilometres and closing.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to weapons.

[Borg Sphere]

JANEWAY: I'm not leaving without you.
SEVEN: Then you will be assimilated.
(Janeway shoots an approaching drone, then runs. Two drones flank Seven.)
TUVOK: They can see us.
KIM: How?
TUVOK: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Bridge, we're in position. Three to beam up.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Three?
JANEWAY: Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Where's Seven?
JANEWAY: She had a change of heart. Report.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere's changing course. They're retreating.
TORRES: They're bringing the remaining transwarp coils online.
JANEWAY: Pursuit course. Target their propulsion system.
PARIS: They're gone, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

(The Sphere comes out of transwarp and flies inside a giant spacestation. Seven is escorted to a large central chamber. A platform is lowered which contains the head, shoulders and spinal cord of a Borg female, but without cybernetic implants except for tubes and a unit growing out of the back of its head. The rest of the body is assembled to receive it. It flexes its shoulders and steps out to touch Seven's face.)
QUEEN: Welcome home.

To be continued...


S5 E16
Dark Frontier Part 2
Stardate: 52619.2
Original Airdate: 17 February 1999

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: You've changed. Your exo-plating, your ocular implant. They've taken you apart and they've re-created you in their own image. Hair, garments, but at the core you are still mine.
SEVEN: The Borg have changed as well. I expected re-assimilation, not conversation.
QUEEN: I see they've also given you a sense of humour.
SEVEN: My humour is my own.
QUEEN: Spoken like a true individual. The last two years must have been a remarkable experience. You are unique.
SEVEN: My experience will add to your perfection.
QUEEN: Yes.
SEVEN: That is why you removed me from Voyager.
QUEEN: That is why we put you there in the first place. You believe that Voyager liberated you from the Collective. Did you really think we would surrender you so easily?
SEVEN: Explain.
QUEEN: You must be tired. It's time to regenerate. We've adapted an alcove just for you. Go. It will help order your thoughts. When your cycle is complete we will continue our conversation. Comply.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Progress?
TORRES: We were having trouble modulating the coil to our warp field. But I had an inspiration this morning. Instead of trying to adapt the coil to our technology, we should be adapting our systems to theirs. With any luck, we should have transwarp capability by oh six hundred.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
TORRES: Actually, I can't take all the credit. I did some digging in Seven of Nine's personal database and I found some designs she'd been working on to enhance the warp drive. With a few adjustments
JANEWAY: Work with Mister Paris on a flight plan. I want to make our first trial run tomorrow afternoon.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: And B'Elanna? Don't access personal databases without my authorisation.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: There are protocols for observing privacy on this ship.
TORRES: No offence, but Seven of Nine is not on this ship anymore.
JANEWAY: I realise the two of you weren't exactly close. Regardless, we've just lost one of our own.
TORRES: She was never one of our own, Captain. Didn't she just prove that?
JANEWAY: I don't know what happened on that sphere and neither do you, Lieutenant. Carry on.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY: No sign of Borg activity. We made a clean getaway.
JANEWAY: The Sphere?
CHAKOTAY: It hasn't shown up on long range sensors or subspace telemetry. It could be anywhere in the quadrant by now.
JANEWAY: Launch a class five probe. Scan for residual transwarp signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
JANEWAY: Why choose this moment to rejoin the Collective?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe she'd been planning it all along.
JANEWAY: She's had any number of opportunities to leave before now.
CHAKOTAY: But never direct access to a Borg vessel. I will betray you. That's what she said two years ago when you disconnected her from the hive.
JANEWAY: Two days ago, she told me Voyager had become her Collective.
NEELIX: Captain, we've cleared out most of the debris, but before we vaporise it I'd like to melt down the larger fragments and extract the polytrinic compounds.
JANEWAY: Makes sense.
NEELIX: That leaves just one item, Seven of Nine's alcove. It requires a lot of power, over thirty megawatts. Should I deactivate it?
JANEWAY: No, leave it alone.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Computer, isolate the sensor readings for time index one one four point six. Identify source.
COMPUTER: Random subspace energy fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Isolate the sensor readings for time index one six six point two. Source?
COMPUTER: Random subspace energy fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a transpectral analysis on all subspace fluctuations. (doorbell) Yes?
TUVOK: A member of the crew has requested an appointment with the Captain. I informed her that you were occupied, but she was insistent.
JANEWAY: Whatever it is, I'm sure Commander Chakotay can handle
(Then she sees Naomi peeking out from behind Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: Request granted. Send her in.
(Tuvok leaves them.)
NAOMI: Permission to submit a proposal for your review.
JANEWAY: Proposal?
NAOMI: It's a rescue operation for Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Oh. You created this plan all by yourself?
NAOMI: Yes, ma'am. You see, if we change our long range sensors to Seven's cortical implant frequency maybe we can find her.
JANEWAY: The Delta Quadrant is a very big place, and Seven could be thousands of light years from here.
NAOMI: What if we boosted our sensor range with power from the main deflector?
JANEWAY: You've been spending too much time in Engineering. I'm afraid it's not quite that simple. But thank you, Crewman. Your initiative is duly noted.
NAOMI: Captain? You're not going to give up, are you?
JANEWAY: There are three things to remember about being a Starship Captain. Keep your shirt tucked in, go down with the ship, and never abandon a member of your crew.
COMPUTER: Transpectral analysis complete.
JANEWAY: Take a look at this, Naomi. What do you see?
NAOMI: Sensor logs.
JANEWAY: These aren't random energy fluctuations. They're Borg comm. signals, and they were all directed at Cargo Bay two.
NAOMI: You mean the Borg were talking to Seven of Nine?
JANEWAY: It sure looks that way. Come on.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: Good morning.
SEVEN: My visual cortex. It's been altered.
QUEEN: We've enhanced it with Borg technology. You've seen through human eyes long enough. It's a neural processing adjunct designed to increase your synaptic efficiency.
SEVEN: Remove it.
QUEEN: You prefer to remain small?
SEVEN: I prefer to remain unique.
QUEEN: Don't be afraid. We won't turn you into a drone. You're much too valuable to us with your individuality intact. But you've left humanity behind. Try to abandon their petty emotions as well. Fear, anger, vanity. They've corrupted you, but the damage can be repaired.
SEVEN: You've expended significant resources to capture me. Why?
QUEEN: Isn't it obvious? You're going to help us assimilate humanity. We failed in our first attempt to assimilate Earth, and we won't succeed the next time unless we understand the nature of their resistance. We want you to be our eyes. Let us see humanity.
SEVEN: While I was regenerating, you assimilated my memories.
QUEEN: Our thoughts are one.
SEVEN: Then you already possess all of my knowledge. What more do you want?
QUEEN: You are the only Borg that has ever returned to a state of individuality. We want to keep you exactly the way you are. Otherwise you would lose your human perspective. We don't want another drone. We want you.
SEVEN: I will resist.
QUEEN: I know.
(Rumble)
SEVEN: What's happening?
QUEEN: Our vessel is disengaging from the Unicomplex. We're setting a course for grid five three two.
SEVEN: State our purpose.
QUEEN: Assimilation. Our presence is not required, but I thought the experience would be a rewarding one for you. Species one zero zero two six.
SEVEN: How many lifeforms?
QUEEN: Three hundred ninety two thousand. You're experiencing compassion. A human impulse. You've forgotten what it means to be Borg. Those lives will be added to our own.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, supplemental. It's been a busy week. The cube linked with another Borg vessel and received over fifty thousand new drones. We now begin the dangerous task of identifying the newcomers.

[USS Raven - lab]

(They have brought a drone onto their ship.)
ERIN: Species six nine six one, Ktarian. Tritanium infrastructure. He's a tactical drone.
MAGNUS: Take a look at his proximity transceiver. Let's check his previous designation.
ERIN: Three of five, Tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix one.
MAGNUS: I want to keep an eye on this one. Let's tag him. Bring me the subdermal probe, will you?
ANNIKA: Is he special?
MAGNUS: Very special. We think he used to work near the Borg Queen. If he ever goes back there, we'll be able to track him now.
ANNIKA: Does the Queen have a throne?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows.
ERIN: We think she's more like the Queen of an insect colony. She helps coordinate all the other drones.
MAGNUS: His regeneration cycle's almost complete. We'd better get him back.
ANNIKA: Bye.
(The drone is beamed away.)
ERIN: He's in his alcove. Nobody missed him. Enough drones for one day. Anybody hungry?
ANNIKA: Me.
MAGNUS: You two go ahead. I want to read through his cranial transceiver logs, see if he was ever in direct contact with the Queen.
ERIN: Don't be long.

[Janeway's quarters]

CHAKOTAY: It turns out his hunch was right. The drone had been receiving direct commands from this Borg Queen. I analysed the comm. signals. Look at the transpectral frequencies.
JANEWAY: They match the ones that were sent to Seven. What did the Hansens learn about this Queen?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid they never got a chance to find out.
JANEWAY: One thing is certain. She contacted Seven of Nine, and the next day Seven rejoined the Borg. Obviously, she exerts some influence.
CHAKOTAY: You think Seven was instructed to leave Voyager?
JANEWAY: Instructed, coerced. She insisted she join the away team. She was adamant that if she didn't board that Sphere, our mission would fail. Sounds to me like she was being threatened. My instincts told me she was holding something back, but I, I didn't pursue it. I let her go.
CHAKOTAY: If you hadn't, we might all be drones by now.
JANEWAY: What's running through that Collective mind of yours? You've got thousands of species to choose from, billions of individuals. Why Seven of Nine? You should've assimilated us while you had the chance.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: I want you to keep analysing the Hansens' database. Compile a list of every technology they created to track the Borg. Assemble a team of engineers to assist you.
CHAKOTAY: If you're planning a rescue mission, that research will only take us so far.
JANEWAY: Oh?
CHAKOTAY: I've studied their log entries long enough to realise that as brilliant as the Hansens were, they made a fatal mistake. They became overconfident.
JANEWAY: We won't make the same mistake.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: This will be a long range tactical rescue. It could take days, even weeks, before we find our missing crewman. Lieutenant Torres is equipping the Delta Flyer with the transwarp coil. It'll allow us to cover more territory. An away team will take it into transwarp space, where Tuvok believes we can track the sphere that abducted Seven of Nine. Thanks to the Hansens, we'll be well prepared for an encounter with the Borg. Their multi-adaptive shielding will make the Flyer virtually invisible to Borg sensors, and narrow beam transporters will allow us to penetrate the Sphere. Mister Paris, you'll man the helm. Commander Tuvok, tactical. Doctor, there's no telling what condition Seven will be in when we find her. You'll come along.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll be leading the away team. The rest of you will remain on Voyager and maintain position at the threshold of our transwarp conduit. We may need tactical support when we return. You'll be taking your orders from Commander Chakotay. We'll be searching for one individual among thousands of drones. But she's one of us and I'm not about to let her go. Let's get started.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: All systems go. We're ready for the jump.
JANEWAY: Bring the coil online. Prepare for transwarp.
TUVOK: Power output fluctuating.
JANEWAY: Compensating.
PARIS: We're at critical velocity.
JANEWAY: Engage, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Transwarp in four, three, two. We've crossed the threshold.
JANEWAY: Steady as she goes. Doctor, are you all right?
EMH: Just a little motion sickness. I'll need to adjust my matrix to accommodate for extreme velocity.
TUVOK: I'm detecting residual transwarp signatures. They match the Borg Sphere.
JANEWAY: Adjust our course and follow it, Mister Paris.
EMH: I believe the Captain's order was steady as she goes.
JANEWAY: Full speed ahead.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: We've arrived. Are you ready?
SEVEN: I have familiarised myself with the species.
QUEEN: Tactical weakness.
SEVEN: Their vessels lack manoeuverability.
QUEEN: Tactical strength.
SEVEN: They've developed a modulating phaser pulse that can penetrate our shields.
QUEEN: How do you propose we adapt?
SEVEN: You are the Borg. You tell me.
QUEEN: Thirty nine of their vessels are converging on our position. They're firing weapons. Our shields are failing. We will be destroyed. How do you propose we adapt?
SEVEN: Triaxillate our shield geometry to absorb their phaser pulses.
QUEEN: I was thinking the same thing. Adaptation complete. They're no longer a threat. Go to the Primary Assimilation Chamber. You'll monitor the bio-extraction process. You look reluctant. Maybe I've been pushing you too quickly. You can assist with the repairs to our shield matrix instead. Seven of Nine. Be efficient.

[Assimilation chamber]

(Seven helps with the shield matrix, but she can hear the newcomers shouting. An alien is escorted past her, then something explodes. She goes to repair it and is knocked down by another explosion. Two Borg lift her up and scan her, then let her go. An alien breaks free of his escort and tries to run. She grabs him, and a Borg assimilates him in front of her eyes. She is shocked and moves away. Passing an assimilation chamber, she looks in and sees an alien with most of an arm amputated ready for augmentation. A female turns and looks at her. She is one of three waiting for similar procedures. Another control node explodes and the Borg standing guard goes to fix it. She deactivates the Borg surgeon and helps the alien sit up.)
SEVEN: Assist me. I am not Borg, I will help you escape. Assist me!
(They help the male up. Seven uses a control panel.)
SEVEN: I'm detecting one of your vessels. It's heavily damaged, the crew is dead. The Borg are ignoring it. It's propulsion system is still functioning. I will transport you aboard. Remain there until the Borg leave orbit. Then set a course on a heading of one two one mark nine. Do you understand?
(They nod. She beams them away.)

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: Congratulations.
SEVEN: Regarding?
QUEEN: Assimilation is complete.
SEVEN: Three hundred thousand individuals have been transformed into drones. Should they be congratulated as well?
QUEEN: They should be. They've left behind their trivial, selfish lives and they've been reborn with a greater purpose. We've delivered them from chaos into order.
SEVEN: Comforting words. Use them next time instead of resistance is futile. You may elicit a few volunteers.
QUEEN: You cling to sarcasm because you are afraid to see the truth. Species one zero zero two six is already adding to our perfection. You can feel their distinctiveness coursing through us, enhancing us. Stop resisting. Take pleasure in this.
SEVEN: I will not take pleasure in the destruction of a race.
QUEEN: Human sentiment. Compassion, guilt, empathy. They're irrelevant.
SEVEN: Not to me.
QUEEN: Me? There is no me. There is only us. One mind.
SEVEN: My thoughts are my own.
QUEEN: We've overlooked something. A ship. Four lifeforms. They're trying to escape. How do you suggest we proceed? Destroy the vessel, or assimilate it?
SEVEN: Neither. There are only four lifeforms and the vessel is heavily damaged. It would be an inefficient use of our resources. We should ignore it.
QUEEN: In this case, our thoughts are not one. If those individuals are allowed to survive, species one zero zero two six will survive and continue to resist us. But that's what you were hoping for, wasn't it? You tried to mask their lifesigns, but I detected them.
(A tractor beam from a Cube grabs the little ship.)
SEVEN: Release the vessel.
QUEEN: I'm sorry this lesson has to be so painful for you, but you are a difficult pupil. Abandon your human frailties. They are the cause of your pain.
SEVEN: Let them go. Please.
(The little ship is released.)
SEVEN: I thought compassion was irrelevant.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, stardate 32634.9. The Raven was hit by a subspace particle storm. We took heavy damage and our multi-adaptive shielding went offline for thirteen point two seconds. Unfortunately, it was long enough for the Borg to perceive us as a threat.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: I've found something. A nebula.
MAGNUS: Class?
ERIN: Mutara. Distance, three light years. I'm setting a course.
MAGNUS: The particle density's too high. Our hull would breach.
ERIN: We can reinforce structural integrity.
MAGNUS: We'll find somewhere else to hide.
ERIN: There's no time.

[Annika's room]

MAGNUS [OC]: It's been three hours and the Cube hasn't found us yet. As long as we can keep masking our warp trail
ERIN [OC]: The entire Collective knows about us by now. They'll send more ships.
MAGNUS [OC]: The nebula's too dangerous.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

MAGNUS: We've had close calls before. This is no different. Remember when the transporters failed?
ERIN: And you had to spend the night in a maturation chamber, with fifty two neonatal drones. A transwarp conduit, two point three light years starboard. It's a Cube heading right for us.
MAGNUS: Time to intercept?
ERIN: One hour, maybe less.
ANNIKA [OC]: Papa?
MAGNUS: Be right there, Annika. Start looking for an M-class planet. We'll abandon ship if we have to.

[Annika's room]

MAGNUS: Hey.
ANNIKA: Are we going to be assimulated?
MAGNUS: Not if I can help it. Go back to sleep, your mother and I have work to do.
ANNIKA: Are the Borg mad at us?
MAGNUS: No.
ANNIKA: Then why are they chasing our ship?
MAGNUS: They're curious about us, like we are about them. But don't worry, we won't let them get too close.
ANNIKA: Can't we go home?
MAGNUS: Soon.
ANNIKA: Papa, will it hurt to be a drone?
MAGNUS: Sleep.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: Hmm.
EMH: I'd like to suggest a few modifications to the comm. array.
JANEWAY: Yes?
EMH: I've studied Seven's cranial schematics and I've isolated the frequency of her interplexing beacon. When we catch up with the Sphere, we might be able to send her a brief message.
JANEWAY: What if she's already been linked to the hive mind?
EMH: Every drone has its own translink signature. Only Seven will be able to hear our message.
JANEWAY: I'll give you a hand.
EMH: The Hansen Diaries. Not exactly light reading.
JANEWAY: I've been poring over their last log entries for any details we might have missed. I want to make sure history doesn't repeat itself.
EMH: They should have quit while they were ahead. Ten million terraquads of data, three years in the wild.
JANEWAY: They could have studied the Borg for another three decades and still have barely scratched the surface. I agree their methods were unorthodox, but that's been true of most great explorers.
EMH: Most explorers don't take their four year old daughter along for the ride.
JANEWAY: We'll get her back, Doctor, with her parents' help.
PARIS: Captain, I've got a fix on the Sphere's location. It's in a region about two hundred light years from here.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Bring the multi-adaptive shielding online. Set a course for those coordinates and prepare to disengage transwarp drive.
(Later, in normal space, they approach the Unicomplex.)
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I'm detecting thousands of integrated substructures, trillions of lifeforms, all Borg.
PARIS: There's a Cube coming up fast off our port bow.  
(And straight past.)
JANEWAY: Did they detect us?
TUVOK: I don't believe so.
JANEWAY: Any sign of our Sphere?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. Its ion signature leads directly to that whatever it is.
JANEWAY: Take us in, Mister Paris, minimum thrusters. Begin scanning for Seven, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: I have a task for you. We're planning to deploy a new mode of assimilation designed for highly resistant species. I want you to programme the nanoprobes.
SEVEN: Your technology has changed since I left the Collective. My knowledge is insufficient.
QUEEN: Your knowledge for the target species is invaluable. Species five six one eight. Human. Warp capable. Origin, grid three two five. Physiology inefficient, below average cranial capacity, minimal redundant systems, limited regenerative abilities. Our previous attempts to assimilate them were all direct assaults. They failed, so we've created a more surreptitious strategy.
SEVEN: You intend to detonate a biogenic charge in Earth's atmosphere.
QUEEN: It would infect all lifeforms with nanoprobe viruses. Assimilation would be gradual. By the time they realised what was happening, half their population would be drones.
SEVEN: Inefficient. The virus would take years to proliferate.
QUEEN: We've waited this long. Interface with the central alcove. Begin programming the nanoprobes. Be sure to enhance the viral sequencers. You've been involved in hundreds of assimilations. This is no different.
SEVEN: To you, perhaps. Part of me is still human. I will not assist in their destruction.
QUEEN: We all originated from lesser species. I myself came from species one two five. But that's irrelevant now. We are Borg.
SEVEN: I am an individual.
QUEEN: You're only repeating their words. You sound like a mindless automaton. Comply, or we will turn you into a drone.
SEVEN: Proceed, if you wish.
QUEEN: You're torn between your desire to be one with us and your loyalty to them. It's time for you to complete your task. All of your emotions, grief, guilt, remorse, compassion, will be irrelevant once humanity is assimilated. Forget Voyager. They were never your Collective.
(Drones surround them closely.)
SEVEN: I am Annika Hansen. Human.
QUEEN: I remember Annika. Does she remember us? She wasn't afraid. Why are you?
SEVEN: You attacked us. You murdered my family.
QUEEN: We did no such thing. We gave them perfection.
(A drone steps forward. It is Magnus, her father.)
SEVEN: Papa.
QUEEN: Your family's here. You're here. Be one with us again.
JANEWAY [OC]: Seven of Nine, we're searching for you. Try to hang on.
SEVEN: Captain.
QUEEN: What did you say?
SEVEN: Nothing.
QUEEN: Janeway.

[Delta Flyer]  

JANEWAY: Our transmission's being deflected.
EMH: By whom?
JANEWAY: I'm not certain.
TUVOK: I have isolated Seven's position. She's inside a large infrastructure approximately six hundred kilometres away.
JANEWAY: Set a course, Mister Paris.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: She's close. Her comm. signal originated within this spatial grid, but we can't detect her vessel. He knows why. Your father designed the technology Captain Janeway's using. Multi-adaptive shielding. Your perfect defence against the Borg. But we assimilated that knowledge, didn't we? We will adapt easily.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: The Cube has altered course. It's heading straight for us.
JANEWAY: They've detected us. Remodulate the shields. Evasive manoeuvres.
PARIS: It flew right past us.
JANEWAY: We won't fool their sensors much longer. Tuvok?
TUVOK: Seven is inside a large chamber.
JANEWAY: Can you get a lock on her?
TUVOK: Not at this distance.
JANEWAY: Take us to within transporter range.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: We have their ship. A Federation shuttlecraft. Three lifeforms, one hologram.
SEVEN: If you've captured their vessel, you've assimilated them by now. I would sense their presence in the Collective. Captain Janeway is eluding you.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: The chamber is too heavily shielded. I can't get a lock on her.
JANEWAY: Can we beam into one of these adjoining corridors?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Time for the bio-dampeners. Tom, hold our position. Target that chamber with full weapons. Stand by to fire on my command.
PARIS: Ma'am, won't you be down there?
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Borg Sphere]

(Armed for bear, Janeway uses a tricorder to find Seven.)
JANEWAY: This way.
(They are stopped by a forcefield.)
TUVOK: Try to locate the shield matrix.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I can disable the forcefield, but it will take several minutes.
JANEWAY: Do it.
(A Borg walks through the forcefield and straight past them.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok, give me the subdermal probe.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: It's not too late to save them. As you wish.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: They've isolated our shields again. Three vessels are converging. I'm remodulating.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

(The Delta Flyer vanishes from the screen again.)
SEVEN: You underestimate them.
QUEEN: It's time for a more aggressive approach.

[Delta Flyer]

(Whumph!)
EMH: I thought they couldn't see us.
PARIS: They can't! They're firing blind!

[Borg Sphere]

(Janeway injects a drone in an alcove.)
JANEWAY: Wake him. It's transmitting.
(The drone walks through the forcefield.)
JANEWAY: I've got it. Field modulation is three two four point nine five.
(Tuvok adjusts her bio-dampener.)
TUVOK: Proceed.
(Janeway goes through the forcefield, and her bio-dampener fritzes.)
JANEWAY: It's offline.
TUVOK: You'll be detected.
JANEWAY: Then I'd better hurry. You've got to disable the shield matrix around that chamber.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: It's no use, they've locked on to our shield modulators. They're adapting the second we change frequencies.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

BORG [OC]: Resistance is futile.
QUEEN: You have failed them.
SEVEN: No!
QUEEN: We believed you would be an asset to us. We were wrong. You are weak.
JANEWAY: Don't listen to her, Seven. She's irrelevant. Call them off or I'll destroy you.
QUEEN: Your weapons are useless.
JANEWAY: Don't be so sure. My tactical officer is disabling the shields around this room. Tom, status.
PARIS [OC]: We've targeted the chamber, Captain.
JANEWAY: Let her go, or I'll give the order to fire.
QUEEN: You would be destroyed as well, along with your crewman.
JANEWAY: Better than being one of you. Tom, high-yield torpedoes, full spread. Fire on my command.
(The drones stop advancing on Janeway.)

[Delta Flyer]

 PARIS: Captain, they've disengaged

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

PARIS [OC] the tractor.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire. Beam us out of here.
PARIS [OC]: A dispersal field just activated around the chamber you're in. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Seven, shut down that field.
QUEEN: Don't listen to her. She's poisoned your thoughts long enough.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you an order.
QUEEN: One order, one voice. Insignificant.  
(Seven sends tubules into a control node. The field drops.)
JANEWAY: Tom, energise.
SEVEN: She's adapting.
PARIS [OC]: The field went up again, Captain. I can't beam you out.
QUEEN: You will assist the Collective as drones. Assimilate them.
SEVEN: Captain, target the power node directly above this alcove. It will disrupt her command interface. Our thoughts are one.
(Janeway shoots at the node, and she and Seven are beamed away.)

[Delta Flyer]

(The EMH quickly scans Seven.)
EMH: Welcome back.
(Whumph!)
PARIS: Three vessels, closing fast.
TUVOK: Direct hit to our tactical array. Weapons are down.
JANEWAY: Bring the coil online. Prepare for transwarp.
(The Queen's shuttle is also in pursuit.)
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Transwarp in four, three, two. A vessel entered the conduit with us, just before it closed.
TUVOK: They're targeting our engines.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
PARIS: Direct hit on the port nacelle. We're venting plasma.
TUVOK: Rerouting emergency power.
PARIS: It's not enough. I'll need thirty teradynes at least, or we'll lose transwarp.
JANEWAY: How long to the rendezvous coordinates?
PARIS: Two point four minutes, but we'll drop out of transwarp in less than one.
JANEWAY: Reroute power from life support.  
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I'd rather suffocate than vaporise. Do it!

[Bridge]

(Torres is at Seven's station.)
TORRES: I'm picking up transwarp signatures. There's a conduit approaching, thirty thousand kilometres off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Battle stations.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: We're twenty seconds from normal space.
JANEWAY: The Borg vessel?
TUVOK: Still in pursuit, closing rapidly.
PARIS: Fifteen seconds.
SEVEN: They're trying to lock on with a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Remodulate shields.
PARIS: Threshold in eight, seven, six.
TUVOK: They're locking on.
PARIS: Five.
SEVEN: I've re-polarised the shields. It's being deflected.
PARIS: Three, two.

[Bridge]

TORRES: They're through.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Delta Flyer. Report.
JANEWAY: We've got Seven, but there's a Borg vessel right behind us.
CHAKOTAY: Target the threshold perimeter. Photon torpedoes, full spread.
TORRES: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It should destabilise the matter stream and implode the conduit for at least a light year.
TORRES: Torpedoes locked.
CHAKOTAY: Fire.

[Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY: Voyager, report.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We collapsed

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: the conduit. No sign of Borg activity.

[Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY: Clear us for docking. We're coming home.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Commander, I'm picking up Borg signatures. Lots of them.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TORRES: The conduit.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you collapsed it.
TORRES: So did I.
CHAKOTAY: Stand by weapons. Captain

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Raise shields. We've got company.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Here they come.
(In tiny pieces.)

Captain's log, stardate 52619.2. We got another twenty thousand light years out of the transwarp coil before it gave out. I figure we're a good fifteen years closer to home.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: I see you've picked up some bad habits.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The Doctor told you to regenerate for at least two days. You're violating a direct medical command.
SEVEN: I will comply when my work is completed.
JANEWAY: Borg tactical data?
SEVEN: During my time at Unimatrix One I acquired a vast amount of knowledge. It may prove useful in our future encounters with the Borg. I am downloading it into Voyager's database. The Borg believed I was unique, that I understood humanity. They were obviously mistaken.
JANEWAY: How so?
SEVEN: I betrayed the crew of Voyager, threatened you with assimilation. I did not expect you to return for me.
JANEWAY: Looks like you still have a few things to learn. Time to regenerate.
SEVEN: When I am finished.
JANEWAY: No, now. That's an order.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Sweet dreams.


S5 E17
The Disease
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 24 February 1999

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]
(In an enormous, long modular spaceship, Harry Kim is fraternising enthusiastically with a young woman.)
KIM: We shouldn't be here.
TAL: Don't worry. Nobody saw us leave.
(She removes his comm, badge.(
KIM: Hey, I need that. What if somebody tries to call?
TAL: Shush.
(A door opens and closes nearby.)
KIM: What was that?
TAL: Don't worry. Come here.
(She rips off  his uniform jacket, pushes him down onto the bed and straddles him to kiss his chest.)

Captain's log, supplemental. After two weeks we're close to repairing the Varro's warp drive. Then there's the Varro crew. I'm starting to think they'd rather give up warp travel than accept help from strangers.

[Varro ship - Central control]

JIPPEQ: I thought we agreed Central Control would be off limits.
(He is a middle-aged male. Janeway has been getting her hands dirty, and wipes them on a cloth.)
JANEWAY: We did, but I need to access your warp assembly.
JIPPEQ: That technology's classified.
JANEWAY: We have to reconfigure the assembly if we're going to finish this job.
JIPPEQ: Then consider it finished.
JANEWAY: We've come this far.
JIPPEQ: You've turned our ship upside down for two weeks, and I've yet to see any results.
JANEWAY: You might check the antimatter injectors.
JIPPEQ: Back online.
JANEWAY: All you need now is a jolt of antimatter from Voyager's engines and you'll be back in business, but I need access to your warp assembly. You know, I can understand why you're distrustful of other species. Frankly, we've had a rough time in the Delta Quadrant ourselves. But our two species have made remarkable progress working together to repair your engines. We've come a long way since you ignored our opening hails. Let's not throw all that away.
JIPPEQ: I'll admit we do share some things in common.
JANEWAY: We're both on long journeys, looking for allies. In many ways, we're like cousins.
JIPPEQ: Cousins?
JANEWAY: Well, distant cousins. Think about it. Four hundred years ago you started out the same way we did, a single starship, a small crew, facing the unknown. And now, centuries later, you've grown into a generational ship with a history and culture all your own. When I look at your vessel, I can't help but wonder if I'm seeing Voyager's future. Our journey could easily last several generations. So, what do you say, cousin?
JIPPEQ: You can access the warp assembly from here.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
(Torres and Paris enter. He is carrying a box.)
JANEWAY: Status?
TORRES: The plasma couplings are online. We're ready for the antimatter transfer.
JANEWAY: Then let's get started. Janeway to

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager. Status.
CHAKOTAY: Ready here, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: Initiate the transfer.
(Chakotay nods to Tuvok, who does the work.)

[Varro ship - Central control]

JIPPEQ: Warp reactors one through fourteen are coming online. It's working.
JANEWAY: Keep your fingers crossed. For luck.

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]

(Tal wakes up, with only a sheet discreetly wrapped around her.)
TAL: If you're planning on leaving through the viewport, you might want to get dressed. The interstellar vacuum might get a little chilly.
KIM: What? Oh, funny.
TAL: Come back to bed.
KIM: I can't sleep.
TAL: Cuddle.
KIM: I can't cuddle.
TAL: I told you we're not going to get caught. If someone had seen us, they would've reported it by now.
KIM: I'm violating about half a dozen regulations by just being in this room. And what we did earlier? I don't know if Starfleet even has a regulation for that.
TAL: What are you saying? Making love is a crime in your culture?
KIM: Yes! No. What I'm saying is, it's a breach of protocol.
TAL: How romantic.
KIM: The Captain instructed all away teams. No personal interaction with the Varro crew. I violated a direct order.
TAL: Come back to bed. That's an order.
(Kim sits down next to her.)
TAL: Are all humans so jumpy?
KIM: No, only me.
(The ship shakes slightly.)
KIM: The warp engines. They've started the plasma transfer. We've got to get down there. We're late. What are you waiting for?
TAL: To see what you look like in my uniform.
KIM: You don't understand. If I'm not at my post.
TAL: You'll be executed?
KIM: Funny. We'd better go in separately.

[Varro ship - Central Control]

TORRES: Impressive.
PARIS: Just trying to orchestrate the antimatter flow.
TORRES: You should try some Chopin when you're done. Look who showed up for the final movement.
KIM: Excuse me?
PARIS: Just a little late for the joke, as well as the job.
KIM: I was checking the manifolds in segment twenty two.
(Tal enters, and a shake makes her stagger.)
JIPPEQ: Warp reaction's destabilising. Tal?
TAL: I can't find the problem.
JANEWAY: We're less than a minute away from multiple core breaches. Abort the transfer.
JIPPEQ: So much for finger crossing.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm reading microfractures all over the hull.
JIPPEQ: Why couldn't we detect that before?
JANEWAY: Good question. We'll have to check the hulls in each of your vessel's segments.
JIPPEQ: But that'll take days.
JANEWAY: The sooner we start, the sooner we finish.

[Corridor]

(Tiny Voyager is docked at a strut.)
PARIS: Friendly people.
KIM: They've had a lot of bad experiences with other species.
PARIS: Well, I don't know. It seems like your first contact went pretty well.
KIM: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: I was just wondering where you disappeared to today.
KIM: I told you. I was checking the plasma conduits
PARIS: In segment twenty two, I know. They must have sonic showers over there. You're a lot cleaner than you were when you left. You are such a lousy liar. Haven't you learned anything from me after five years? She's cute.
KIM: Who.
PARIS: That assistant engineer, Tal.
KIM: Cute enough.
PARIS: Oh, here we go again.
KIM: What?
PARIS: You, going after impossible women. A hologram, an ex-Borg, the wrong twin, and now a girl from a xenophobic species?
KIM: You're right. You're absolutely right. I'm putting her out of my mind, I promise.
PARIS: Good. Glad to hear it. I'm due back on the bridge.
KIM: See you in the morning.

[Kim's quarters]

KIM: Computer, open a channel to Varro ship, segment sixteen, station two oh four. Encode transmission with security code alpha seven.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
TAL [on monitor]: What took you so long? I've been waiting twenty two minutes for you to call.
KIM: I was testing myself. Seeing how long I could resist calling you.
TAL [on monitor]: And?
KIM: I lasted twenty two minutes.
TAL [on monitor]: Should I feel complimented or insulted?
KIM: Since this is the first chance I've had to open a comm. link, complimented.
TAL [on monitor]: So you liked what happened?

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]

KIM [on monitor]: Yeah, a lot.
TAL: Enough to try it again?
KIM [on monitor]: Absolutely. I've got to be honest, I wasn't expecting something so different.
TAL: Neither was I. Our species look so similar. Well, at least on the surface.
KIM [on monitor]: I would've never guessed when it came down to the basics. Well, let's just say the birds and bees would be very confused.
TAL: The birds and bees?

[Bridge]

PARIS: I'm telling you, you should take a look at their database. They've got some pretty amazing stuff on that ship.
TUVOK: Stuff?
PARIS: Their environmental control system, for instance. It's completely regenerative. Zero waste.
TUVOK: Impressive.
PARIS: It can be programmed to create almost any habitat. If you wanted to, you could recreate Vulcan in your quarters with that system.
TUVOK: Why would I want to?
PARIS: A little taste of home in the Delta Quadrant? Think about it. Springtime on the shores of Lake Yaron.
TUVOK: I require a desk and a bed. Nothing more.
PARIS: You're missing the point.
TUVOK: No doubt.
PARIS: These people have been travelling for four hundred years. They've learned a thing or two about living comfortably.
TUVOK: Our systems are more than adequate. 
PARIS: Oh, I give up.
CHAKOTAY: After only two minutes? Tuvok, how do you do it?
TUVOK: I wait until his own illogic overwhelms him. I'm detecting an unauthorised transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Origin?
TUVOK: Unknown. It's been encoded.
CHAKOTAY: Find out where it's going.

[Kim's quarters]

KIM: Where would you most like to be right now?
TAL [on monitor]: Besides your quarters?
KIM: Besides my quarters.
TAL [on monitor]: On a distant moon, where the air is warm and the gravity is light. No bulkheads around me. Where, if I walk too quickly, I can almost fly.
KIM: I like that.
TAL [on monitor]: What about you? Where would you most want to be right now?
KIM: Besides your cabin?
TAL [on monitor]: Besides my cabin.
KIM: Sorry, I can't come up with anything better than your cabin.
TAL [on monitor]: And what would you do if you were here?
KIM: Now?
TAL [on monitor]: This very moment.
KIM: I'd ask you to dim the lights.
TAL [on monitor]: And what if I said no?
KIM: Okay, so we leave the lights on.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The message is being sent to the Varro ship, segment sixteen.
CHAKOTAY: Living quarters.
PARIS: Er, Commander? I think I can track that down for you. Hold on, something's wrong. I'm losing the signal.

[Kim's quarters]

(The image on the monitor breaks up.)
KIM: Tal?

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The transmission has ended.
PARIS: If it was a transmission. It could have just been a glitch in the comm. system.
CHAKOTAY: Run a diagnostic.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY: Finding the source of these structural problems isn't going to be easy. They've already scanned most of their ship and come up empty. I'm hoping we'll do a better job.
TUVOK: We should form smaller teams to maximise efficiency.
CHAKOTAY: Agreed. We'll work in pairs. Now, what I'd like to do is start with their reactor bay, where we first detected the problem. (continues under dialogue)
PARIS: You owe me.
KIM: What?
PARIS: Eyes front. Last night I had to sabotage the comm. system to cover your tracks. You called her, didn't you?
KIM: Guilty.
PARIS: How long has this been going on? The truth.
KIM: From the moment we first saw each other. It was like touching an open plasma relay.
PARIS: Sounds serious.
KIM: Maybe it is.
PARIS: Has it occurred to you that you're breaking a few dozen protocols?
KIM: We know what we're getting into.
CHAKOTAY: Dismissed.
PARIS: Do you?
SEVEN: Our duty assignment. We're to survey the generational ship from Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Team alpha and gamma have finished scanning sections one through sixty four.
KIM: Kind of puts a Borg cube to shame, doesn't it?
SEVEN: The vessel's technology is impressive, but its construction is haphazard.
KIM: I guess they sort of improvised as they went along. Seven, you've been around humans for a while now. What do you think about love?
SEVEN: We're scanning for microfractures. I don't see the relevance.
KIM: Just curious.
SEVEN: Parental love, romantic love, affection between friends. Specify.
KIM: Romantic love.
SEVEN: An attraction based on sexual desire when it facilitates procreation.
KIM: I guess I'm asking the wrong person.
SEVEN: Not at all. The Borg have referenced this condition in over six thousand assimilated species.
KIM: Condition? You make it sound like a disease.
SEVEN: Physiologically, it bears a striking similarity to disease. A series of biochemical responses that trigger an emotional cascade impairing normal functioning.
KIM: Forget it.
SEVEN: Are you in love, Ensign?
KIM: I guess that's what I've been asking myself.
(Kim gasps as a light flickers over his face.)
SEVEN: You're glowing.
KIM: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: Your epidermis luminesced.
KIM: Oh, it must be the lighting in here.
SEVEN: No, it was you.
(He sees the effect on his hand.)
SEVEN:You should report to Sickbay.
KIM: It's nothing.
SEVEN: You must comply.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Lie still.
KIM: I feel fine.
EMH: No doubt you're feeling wonderful. Your beta endorphins are abnormally elevated.
KIM: Really?
EMH: You've been spending a lot of time on the generational ship. Do you recall coming into contact with any toxins? Antimatter radiation?
KIM: No.
EMH: Maybe something in one of their medical bays. A biological agent?
KIM: No.
EMH: Did you consume any of their cuisine?
KIM: No.
SEVEN: Doctor, there is unusual synaptic activity in his cerebral cortex.
KIM: No kidding.
EMH: This could be the work of an alien virus. We'll have to initiate full quarantine protocols. Inform the Captain and request a bio-alert.
KIM: Wait! There's no need for that. I can explain.
EMH: I'm listening.
KIM: Could you give us some privacy?
SEVEN: If there is the possibility of an epidemic the Doctor may require my assistance.
KIM: There isn't and he won't. Please.
(The EMH nods and Seven leaves.)
KIM: Last night I had an encounter with one of the Varro.
EMH: Encounter?
KIM: A personal encounter.
EMH: Specifically?
KIM: Sex. We had sex.
EMH: You had intimate contact with an alien species without medical clearance?
KIM: It was in the heat of the moment. I didn't think anything like this would happen.
EMH: Correction. If you'd been thinking, you would have considered the risks and exercised restraint. Sit down. You'll need a full biomedical workup and your friend will have to come in as well.
KIM: Do we have to drag her into this?
EMH: It is my medical responsibility. Which, I'm sorry to say, also requires me to report this to the Captain.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I expected more from you.
KIM: I'm sorry. I don't know what I was thinking.
JANEWAY: Don't you? I've seen Tal. She's an impressive young woman, beautiful. But that's no excuse to ignore your obligations as a Starfleet officer.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: There's a reason you took a semester of interspecies protocol at the Academy. There's also a reason why the Handbook on Personal Relationships is three centimetres thick.
KIM: All Starfleet personnel must obtain authorisation from their C.O. as well as clearance from their Medical Officer before initiating an intimate relationship with an alien species.
JANEWAY: Bravo. Unfortunately, your recitation comes a little late. According to the Doctor, your condition isn't life-threatening. There's no reason to confine you to Sickbay. Nut I do agree with his recommendation to run full bioscans on both you and Tal. And her people need to be told so they can evaluate any bio-threat you might have introduced into their population. We're trying to help these people, Ensign, earn their trust. I was even hoping they might return the favour, share their technology, their insights into long-term space travel. But your little escapade put that in jeopardy.
KIM: Permission to speak freely? With all due respect, this wasn't a fling. I've really gotten to know Tal, and I've developed true feelings for her.
JANEWAY: Noted. But there are regulations, and you've broken them. I'm entering a formal reprimand into your record, and I'm ordering you to break off this relationship. Do you understand?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Commander, I wanted to share a few security concerns. A few days ago I noticed some mess hall supplies had disappeared. Liquid nutriments, emergency rations. Nothing to warrant a red alert, but I took the liberty of investigating on my own. Take a look at this.
(Neelix hands over a PADD.)
TUVOK: Unauthorised use of the mess hall replicator is hardly a felony.
NEELIX: It wasn't just unauthorised. Someone accessed the ship's environmental controls from that station.
TUVOK: Life support was routed to Jefferies tube G thirty three, deck fifteen.
NEELIX: Isn't that section normally uninhabited?
TUVOK: Whoever did this encoded the procedure so it wouldn't be detected.

[Jefferies tube]

(They find a blanket and emergency rations.)
TUVOK: It appears we have intruders.
(Neelix finds a hand-sized device.)
NEELIX: It looks like a Varro scanning device.
TUVOK: Breathable oxygen is confined to this chamber and the area immediately behind this hatch. Stand back.
(Tuvok opens the hatch to reveal a young Varro man.)

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]

TAL: Come in.
KIM: Work?
TAL: No, I'm just tormenting myself with what ifs. What if I actually had the chance to see that pulsar field? Go there instead of just squinting at it through long range sensors.
KIM: Too far off your course, huh?
TAL: Too close to an inhabited planet. They might make contact with us. It's too dangerous. It's always the same thing. The mighty generational ship. All we do is run away from anything that's different. But that's going to change.
KIM: I'm afraid I've got some bad news. I er, I can't see you anymore. Captain's orders.
TAL: How did she find out?
KIM: Something happened to me this morning. I had a strange sensation and then my skin luminesced, just like last night.
TAL: That shouldn't have happened. Our species are too dissimilar.
KIM: What shouldn't have happened?
TAL: We call it Olan'vora, the shared heart, when two of us merge. You know the biological connection we had last night? It becomes stronger. It won't hurt you, Harry, but it will change you. It'll change both of us. Bring us closer.
KIM: So can this process be reversed?
TAL: In time, if we stay away from each other. But if we don't, the more we're together, the harder it will be to stop it. But then, you have your orders.
KIM: Orders. It's an old story. Boy meets girl from the wrong side of the galaxy. Boy loses girl.
TAL: And girl loses boy.
KIM: It's not like we didn't know this was going to end.
TAL: At least we had two weeks.
KIM: Two great weeks.
TAL: Goodbye, Harry.
KIM: Bye. Are you really going to let me leave?
TAL: If that's what you want.
KIM: It's not.
(They kiss passionately.)

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: Welcome aboard. Normally we like to know something about our guests before we invite them to join us. Care to tell us how you got here?
STOWAWAY: Through a docking port.
TUVOK: Your entry would have triggered an intruder alert.
STOWAWAY: Your technology's easy to circumvent. It doesn't matter how I got here. I'm not going back.
CHAKOTAY: That remains to be seen. You haven't explained your reasons for leaving the generational ship.
STOWAWAY: I'm not a criminal, if that's what you think. If you leave me at the next inhabited system, I'll manage from there.
CHAKOTAY: Your next stop is the Brig, unless you answer my questions.
STOWAWAY: I came aboard four days ago with one of the work details.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
STOWAWAY: Our ship's not the paradise our leaders make it out to be. There are thousands of us who feel like prisoners, and others who
TUVOK: Continue.
STOWAWAY: There are rumours of a movement. People who want to leave the ship. Some of them are willing to take violent action.
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
STOWAWAY: This is a trick.
TUVOK: A trick?
STOWAWAY: You're trying to get me to expose the movement. Our leaders put you up to this.
TUVOK: On the contrary. We haven't even told them we've found you.
STOWAWAY: You're lying.
CHAKOTAY: I don't have time for a debate. You asked for asylum. Fine, I'll consider it. But only if you answer my questions. What movement? Contact the Varro authorities. Let them know we've found one of their people, then take him to the Brig.
STOWAWAY: You can tell the authorities that I'm not the only one. There are hundreds more like me.

[Janeway's quarters]

(Over dinner.)
CHAKOTAY: Do we know anything about this supposed uprising?
JANEWAY: Jippeq said the rumours are just that, rumours. But he's questioning our stowaway, just to be certain. New protocols for working with the Varro. After the incident with Ensign Kim, they insisted we keep our crews segregated.
CHAKOTAY: That's pretty severe.
JANEWAY: Harry violated protocol. Frankly, I understand their position.
CHAKOTAY: Is that why you came down so hard on him? A formal reprimand for being intimate with a young woman?
JANEWAY: I know it seems a little extreme, but I wanted to leave a lasting impression. Chalk it up to growing pains.
CHAKOTAY: Well, he looks pained, all right. Until now he's had a spotless record. Maybe you should reconsider.
JANEWAY: What are you implying?
CHAKOTAY: Are you angry because Harry disobeyed orders, or because he let you down.
JANEWAY: I set the same standards for all my officers.
CHAKOTAY: If I object to one of your decisions you'll hear me out, even insist I speak up.
JANEWAY: You're my First Officer, he's an Ensign. He hasn't earned the right to question my orders, whatever his personal views.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Yes?
TORRES [OC]: We've found something.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Corridor]

JIPPEQ: Do your officers make a habit of seducing the species they encounter?
JANEWAY: Certainly not. But it's my understanding this relationship was consensual.
JIPPEQ: I find that difficult to believe. We don't share your cavalier attitude toward intimacy.
JANEWAY: Our attitude is anything but cavalier. Ensign Kim has already been reprimanded. What about Tal? What happens to her?
JIPPEQ: In our society, mating is taken very seriously. When two people chose each other the bonding is permanent. They become biochemically linked. Separation is rare. It induces illness, sometimes fatal. What's to become of Tal when your Ensign flies off in search of his next conquest?

[Engineering]

TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: You found something?
TORRES: We've detected microfractures in one of Voyager's docking ports.
JIPPEQ: Microfractures? That's the same problem we've been having.
JANEWAY: A coincidence?
TORRES: I had suspicions that it wasn't. Seven confirmed them.
SEVEN: Observe. Silicon-based parasites which feed on duranium alloys. Apparently they began replicating on the Varro ship's hull several months ago, and then migrated to Voyager.
TORRES: We analysed them and found artificial gene sequences. The parasites are synthetic.
SEVEN: They may have been created by someone aboard your vessel.
JIPPEQ: Sabotage? I don't believe it.
SEVEN: Perhaps not everyone is content to be in your Collective.

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]

KIM [OC]: Tal, are you there?
TAL: Harry?
KIM [OC]: I can't keep this comm. link open. Where are you?
TAL: By my computer. 
KIM [OC]: Okay. Get ready for a ride, I'm locking on.
TAL: A ride?
(Tal gasps as the transporter beam takes hold of her.)

[Shuttlecraft]

TAL: Where are we?
KIM: A shuttlecraft.
TAL: A shuttlecraft?
KIM: A short range vessel. We use it for away mission.
TAL: We can go anywhere we want?
KIM: Anywhere. For a while, anyway. I'm not due back on Voyager until nineteen hundred hours. They think I'm still out repairing a hull fracture. I finished early.
TAL: You're a fugitive now. How many protocols did you break this time? Let's see. Unauthorised use of a shuttlecraft, kidnapping.
KIM: Direct violation of the Captain's orders. I must be crazy.
TAL: I like you crazy. Navigation?
KIM: Careful, that's the weapons array. You know you almost vaporised your living quarters.
TAL: Well, they could use a good cleaning. Let's go somewhere.
KIM: Where?
TAL: There's a nebula about three hundred thousand kilometres from here. I've been watching it on the sensors for the past few days. Oh, I would love to see it with my own eyes.
KIM: Have a seat.
(Off they fly.)
TAL: Look at this. A subspace vacuole near the centre of the cloud. It must act as a gravitational anchor. There's so much data here it'll take weeks to analyse. Do you have a storage device? We need to download these reading. What?
KIM: I've just never seen anyone so excited about a class three nebula before.
TAL: Maybe you've been taking them for granted.
KIM: Maybe I have. Don't stop. You're beautiful when you're scanning.
TAL: Is that what you say to every girl you take for a ride? I bet you've left a trail of broken hearts across the Delta Quadrant.
KIM: Actually
(Beep!)
TAL: Problem?
KIM: Stray radiation from the nebula. I thought it was the proximity alarm.
TAL: You said we had a couple of hours. No one's going to come looking for us.
KIM: Oh, you don't know Commander Tuvok. If he sees one electron out of place he calls for red alert. Here we are alone and all I can think about is duty and orders.
TAL: Those things are important. I think about them, too. But sometimes you need to follow a different kind of protocol. If you believe in something strongly enough, you can't ignore it, even if it means breaking a few rules.
KIM: That's why I took this shuttle. But every time I break a rule, I feel like my skull is going to decompress. I'm like some kind of Borg drone. Programmed. Except I was designed to be the perfect Starfleet officer. Top of his class, Captain of the Velocity team. Interstellar honours. First field assignment, bridge officer on a starship. Every cadet's dream come true.
TAL: You're not a programme. In fact, I envy your freedom. I mean, your crew's mission to seek out life. What could be more liberating? You explore the unknown. Don't be afraid to explore what's happening between us.
(That is the proximity alarm this time.)
KIM: Oh no, the Delta Flyer.
TAL: Commander Tuvok?
KIM: We're being hailed.
TAL: Well, you'd better answer them before they open fire.
KIM: Kim here. 
TUVOK [OC]: Ensign, you are in direct violation of the Captain's orders. Return to Voyager immediately, and bring Derran Tal with you.
KIM: Yes sir, but why bring Tal?
TUVOK [OC]: She's wanted by the Varro authorities regarding an act of sabotage.

[Briefing room]

JIPPEQ: There's no point in lying. We found a schematic for the parasite on your personal database. You realise this could destroy our ship, our home?
TAL: To some of us it's more like a prison.
JIPPEQ: So you've resorted to sabotage, no doubt involving him.
TUVOK: Mister Kim's complicity remains to be proven.
TAL: He had nothing to do with our movement.
JIPPEQ: Movement?
TAL: Tell them.
JIPPEQ: It's none of their concern.
JANEWAY: If you want our help, you'll need to explain.
JIPPEQ: She's referring to a small group of dissidents.
TAL: It's not a small group. There are hundreds of us.
JANEWAY: What are you trying to achieve?
TAL: Our freedom. The right to live where we choose, to go where we choose.
TUVOK: How will you accomplish that if your vessel is destroyed?
TAL: We're not trying to destroy it. We're trying to dismantle it. The parasites weren't placed randomly. They're targeting the linkages between segments. Each segment will become its own ship. People can decide whether to go or stay.
JIPPEQ: You're destroying the work of every generation that came before you. Our ship isn't just a collection of modules, it's an expression of unity, tradition. For the sake of our history we must respect the rights of
TAL: Of the majority.
JIPPEQ: Yes.
TAL: What about the rights of the minority?
JANEWAY: Tal, if those segments come apart there could be decompressive explosions, most likely casualties. Is that what you want? You know more about the parasites than we do. You could help us.
JIPPEQ: Captain, she's a criminal.
JANEWAY: And maybe your only chance of stopping a catastrophe. Set up a datalink with Voyager. We'll do what we can from our end.
KIM: Tal?
TAL: I'll help you slow down the parasites so you can evacuate the segments in danger. Nothing more.
JIPPEQ: Let's get started.
(Jippeq and Tal leave. Janeway nods to Tuvok and he leaves.)
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: Stow it, Ensign. Right now the only thing standing between you and the Brig is this report. The Doctor's bioscans confirm that you and Tal have developed some sort of biochemical bond. Clearly it's affected your behaviour, so I have to assume that's why you disobeyed my orders. Report to Sickbay. You'll be confined there until this is over.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain!
JANEWAY: I told you to report for treatment.
KIM: I don't want treatment!
JANEWAY: In my ready room.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: You've got thirty seconds before I have Tuvok drag you to Sickbay.
KIM: Captain, I am not sick. I didn't disobey your orders because I'm under some alien influence. I disobeyed your orders because Tal and I are in love, and it's not right for you to keep us apart!
JANEWAY: Listen to yourself. You don't sound anything like the Harry Kim I know.
KIM: Good. I have served on this ship for five years and said, yes, ma'am to every one of your orders. But not this time.
JANEWAY: You're willing to risk your rank, your career, over this?
KIM: Have you ever been in love, Captain?
JANEWAY: Your point?
KIM: Did your skin ever flush when you were near another person? Did your stomach ever feel like someone hollowed it out with a knife when you were apart? Did your throat ever swell when you realised it was over? Seven of Nine, Seven of Nine told me love's like a disease. Well, maybe it is. Pheromones, endorphins, chemicals in our blood, changing our responses, physical discomfort, but any way you look at it, it's still love.
JANEWAY: For the sake of argument, let's say you're right. Your feelings for Tal are no different than mine for what, the man I was engaged to marry? Well, I lost him and you're going to lose Tal. You know that. What the Doctor is offering you is a way to ease the pain.
KIM: That man you were going to marry. If you could have just taken a hypospray to make yourself stop loving him, so that it didn't hurt so much when you were away from him, would you have done that?
(Whumph!)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain to the bridge.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We're detecting structural breaches on the Varro ship.
JANEWAY: (to Kim) Take your station.
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening.
KIM: One of the junctions is about to decompress.
(It is one close by, and debris hits Voyager.)
JANEWAY: On screen. Mister Paris, release the docking clamps. Back us away.
PARIS: Docking controls are offline. I can't break us free.
(The Varro ship continues to fall apart.)
TUVOK: Their shields are continuing to weaken. The superstructure will collapse in less than three minutes.
CHAKOTAY: If that happens while we're still docked
JANEWAY: Keep trying to break free. Janeway to

[Varro ship - Central Control]

JANEWAY [OC]: Varro control room. What's your status?
JIPPEQ: Tal was able to slow the parasites' growth with a polaron surge, but the junctions are still destabilising.
JANEWAY [OC]: How much longer until you've evacuated the affected areas?
TAL: We need another two minutes at least.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I've got the docking controls back online.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate decompression sequence.
KIM: Wait. If we stay where we are, and extend Voyager's structural integrity field around the Varro ship, we could buy them another minute or two. They could finish the evacuation.
TUVOK: However, if an explosion occurs while both ships are inside the field, neither vessel will survive.
KIM: We can do it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep us where we are. Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here.
JANEWAY: Divert all available power to the integrity field, and extend it around the Varro ship.
TORRES [OC]: Understood.

[Varro ship - Central Control]

TAL: Voyager's reinforcing our shields. Surprising, isn't it? A ship of outsiders risking their lives to save ours.
JIPPEQ: They're unusual people.
TAL: Well, maybe the galaxy isn't as hostile as you think. All junctions are clear. What are you waiting for? Tell Voyager to move away.
JIPPEQ: I'm initiating another polaron surge. We can destroy these parasites.
TAL: It's too late. You'll only destroy Voyager along with our ship. Let them go. Let us go.
(Jippeq stands back from the controls.)
TAL: Tal to Voyager.

[Bridge]

TAL [OC]: The evacuation's complete. Disengage your structural field and move to a safe distance.
PARIS: Releasing docking clamps.
(Voyager gets away just before all the modules float free of the superstructure.)

Captain's log, supplemental. Most of the Varro have opted to stay together, travelling in separate ships, but the dissident group has been granted permission to break away and find their own path. We wish them luck.

[Tal's quarters]

TAL: Come in.
(Kim enters.)
TAL: I wasn't sure I'd see you again.
KIM: The Captain gave me permission to say goodbye.
TAL: How are you feeling?
KIM: Lovesick.
TAL: Me, too.
KIM: Will you manage?
TAL: We have medications. I'll recover eventually.
KIM: So, where are you going?
TAL: The Natori system. A pair of binary stars caught in each other's gravity. We passed within a parsec three months ago. Now we're going back for a real look.
KIM: Do me one favour.
TAL: Anything.
KIM: Next time you run across a class three nebula, think of me.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Chronic sleep loss, acute gastroenteritis. You must feel awful, yet you're still refusing treatment?
(Janeway enters.)
EMH: Captain, just the person I wanted to see. This nonsense has gone on long enough. Order Mister Kim to take his medicine.
JANEWAY: Is his condition fatal?
EMH: That's hardly the point.
JANEWAY: Will he recover without taking his medicine?
EMH: Yes, but it could take weeks, even months.
JANEWAY: Well then, if Mister Kim wants to suffer.
EMH: Sometimes I think everyone on this ship has been possessed by alien hormones.
JANEWAY: Would you excuse us, please?
KIM: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Oh, don't thank me. I have no intention of relieving you of your duties, no matter how lousy you feel.
KIM: I understand.
JANEWAY: And the reprimand still stands. I've been thinking about how I reacted to your relationship with Tal.
KIM: You reacted like any Captain would.
JANEWAY: Probably. But I can't help wondering if my response would have been the same if it had been, say, Tom Paris instead of you. Oh don't get me wrong, I still would have been angry and disappointed, but I wouldn't have been surprised.
KIM: Because Ensign Kim doesn't break the rules.
JANEWAY: The truth is, Harry, I think about you differently than the rest of the crew. Which isn't to suggest that I don't care deeply about each of them. You came to me fresh out of the Academy, wide-eyed with excitement about your first deep space assignment. From that first day, I've always felt more protective of you than the others.
KIM: I appreciate that. But that was five years ago. I've changed.
JANEWAY: Yes, you have.
KIM: Maybe I'm not the perfect officer anymore.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But you're a better man.

[Mess hall]

(Kim is sitting alone using a desk computer. I think he is looking at the scans of that class three nebula.)
NEELIX: Last call. There's a bowl of soup in storage and I left the replicator online.
KIM: Thanks.
NEELIX: Good night.
(Neelix meets Seven on his way out.)
NEELIX: Oh, I was just closing up for the evening, but if you need anything?
SEVEN: I'm here to see Ensign Kim.
NEELIX: Oh, good luck.
(Neelix leaves.)
SEVEN: Ensign.
KIM: Hmm?
SEVEN: Thank you.
KIM: For what?
SEVEN: You completed several of my astrometric scans this morning.
KIM: You're welcome. I had some time between duty shifts. Besides, it kept me occupied.
SEVEN: You are attempting to distract yourself from your emotional damage?
KIM: I wish I could say it was working.
SEVEN: The treatment to relieve your condition was available and yet you refused.
KIM: I've got a disease, but I'm willing to live with the symptoms. Doesn't make much sense, does it?
SEVEN: I assumed that romantic love was a human weakness, but clearly it can also be a source of strength. Perhaps my analogy was flawed. Love is not a disease. Get well soon.


S5 E18
Course: Oblivion
Stardate: 52586.3
Original Airdate: 3 March 1999

[Room]
(A celebration is going on. The band are in full swing, with Kim on clarinet. A crewman wheels an array of different sized white-iced cakes on varying height stands past the camera. Champagne is being served. Neelix approaches Seven and the EMH with a silver tray of small packets.)
NEELIX: Are you sure this rice isn't supposed to be cooked? Steamed, fried?
EMH: The idea is to shower the couple with a symbol of good fortune, not garnish them like a roast chicken. Smile.
(He has his holo-imager with him, of course.)
NEELIX: Rice, anyone?
CREWWOMAN: I'll take one.
(Chakotay enters in dress uniform, with Torres on his arm.)
NEELIX: (to Kim.) Red alert.
KIM: Ready?
(The tune changes to Wagner's Bridal Chorus.)
JANEWAY: This is it, Tom. Your bachelor days are over.
PARIS: Not a moment too soon.
JANEWAY: Second thoughts?
PARIS: Second, third, fourth.
EMH: I never thought I'd see the day.
SEVEN: Given the volatile nature of their relationship, one might have predicted homicide rather than matrimony.
TUVOK: When it comes to affairs of the human heart, it is wise to look beyond logic.
JANEWAY: We're gathered here today, not as Starfleet officers, but as friends and family, to celebrate the marriage of two of Voyager's finest. B'Elanna has asked me to forego the rigours of Klingon painsticks in favour of a more traditional ceremony.
KIM: They're saving the painsticks for the honeymoon.
JANEWAY: As Captain, the honour of joining these two people has fallen to me. But before I declare them husband and wife, Tom and B'Elanna have prepared their own vows.
PARIS: I still don't know what I've done to deserve you, But whatever it is, I'll try to keep doing it. And I promise to stand by you, to honour you, till death do us part.
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: Hmm?
JANEWAY: The ring.
KIM: Oh.
PARIS: May this ring be the symbol of our eternal love.
TORRES: You stood by me when most people would have run for the nearest airlock. You were willing to see past my shortcomings, and to take all the bumps and bruises that came along with it. You made me a better person, even though I put up one hell of a fight. I look forward to our journey together.
JANEWAY: Commander.  
(Chakotay hands over the second ring to Torres.)
TORRES: May this ring be the symbol of our eternal love.  
(Paris leans in for the kiss.)
JANEWAY: Not so fast. Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris, Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres. With the power vested in my by Starfleet Command and the United Federation of Planets, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Now, Tom. (the kiss.) Bravo.
(Torres tosses her bouquet over her shoulder, and Seven cannot avoid catching it.)
EMH: Congratulations.
SEVEN: For what?
TUVOK: You may not want to know.
(The newlyweds leave in a cloud of rice. The deck ripples and the rice falls through.)

Captain's log, stardate 52586.3. We've had a lot to celebrate lately. Tom and B'Elanna's wedding, Ensign Harper's new baby, and the continued health of our warp drive, which has taken us within striking distance of home.

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: In this case the shortest path is a straight line. We'll pass right through the centre of the Milky Way.
JANEWAY: And be in sector zero zero one within two years?
CHAKOTAY: More or less.
JANEWAY: You had Seven double-check the calculations?
CHAKOTAY: Two years, eleven days, six hours, provided we continue to operate at peak efficiency.
JANEWAY: Naturally. Of course, if we operate at peak efficiency, we'll be missing some interesting phenomena along the way. An anomalous gradient to the curvature of space, unusual bioharmonic readings from a binary system we'll reach about six months from now.
CHAKOTAY: And the scientist in you can't resist stopping to take a look.
JANEWAY: It would only add another two or three months. Do you think the crew would mutiny?
CHAKOTAY: On the contrary. Everyone'll jump at the chance for some last-minute exploration.
JANEWAY: Everyone, except Seven.
CHAKOTAY: Let your First Officer deal with the personnel problems.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Here's a lovely programme modelled after a mountain resort on the fifth moon of Cytax. Just you, B'Elanna, and the crickets.
PARIS: Crickets?
NEELIX: Cytaxian crickets. Their song is reputed to be an auditory aphrodisiac.
PARIS: Ah. Well, between you and me, B'Elanna and I don't need aphrodisiacs.
NEELIX: There's always the beaches of Ahmedeen. Windsurfing on a sea of liquid argon.
PARIS: I was hoping for some place a little more down to earth.
NEELIX: Well, it's your honeymoon. Just how down to earth did you mean?
PARIS: Earth. I was thinking Chicago in the Roaring Twenties. Speakeasies, flappers, the Charleston.
NEELIX: If that's what you want.
PARIS: Is there a problem?
NEELIX: No, of course not. It's just that we're so close to Earth anyway, I thought you might want to try something a little more exotic.
PARIS: Let me let you in on a little secret, Neelix. Earth has the best vacation spots in the galaxy. It's got the cultures, the climates, the history, the people. It has everything you ever want in a planet.
NEELIX: You sound like a travel brochure.
PARIS: No, no. Just a native.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Oh, and make sure the deuterium manifolds are never opened wider than six hundred microns.
SEVEN: I am familiar with the specifications.
TORRES: Are you familiar with how temperamental the isolitic converter can be?
SEVEN: Yes.
TORRES: Most important, the enhanced warp drive. With the dilithium matrix running hot all the time now, you have to watch it like a hawk.
SEVEN: There is no point in providing me with knowledge I already possess.
TORRES: I guess I am being a little overcautious. I've just, er, never been away from Engineering for more than a couple of days. Certainly never a week.
SEVEN: My engineering abilities are more than sufficient. Enjoy your honeymoon.
TORRES: You may understand the isodynamics of this engine, but I don't think you understand its personality.
SEVEN: Personality? It is a propulsion device.
TORRES: That's my point. It's not just a device. It it has its own quirks, its own, its own moods
(Beep!)
SEVEN: That's just a minor fluctuation in a subsidiary injector port. I will take care of it.
TORRES: I'm going with you.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, you are on leave.
TORRES: Not for another twenty minutes.

[Jefferies tube]

TORRES: So, who's the lucky guy? You caught the bouquet. That means you're next in line for the altar.
SEVEN: Yes, the Doctor informed me of that archaic human superstition.
TORRES: How about Harry Kim?
SEVEN: I fail to see the benefit of monogamous relationships.
TORRES: So you want to stay single?
SEVEN: If you mean remain open to social situations with a wide variety of individuals, then yes.
TORRES: I'm married. I'm not going into stasis for the rest of my life. No, I plan to have
SEVEN: I do not wish to be dependent on anyone. By marrying, one limits one's romantic interactions to a single individual, a circumstance which implies extreme monotony.
TORRES: I'm glad we had this little talk.
(The hatch refuses to open.)
TORRES: Try the manual release.
(They get the hatch open, and see the deck ahead rippling.)
TORRES: I thought you said it was a minor fluctuation,
SEVEN: This entire Jefferies tube is losing molecular cohesion.
TORRES: I guess the honeymoon's off.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: It's our warp field. The enhanced drive is emitting some form of subspace radiation that's affecting Voyager's infrastructure.
TUVOK: It's beginning to break down the molecular bonds in all surrounding sections.
TORRES: We're seeing early stages of the effect in the warp core. Reaction chamber, injector ports, they're all showing signs of de-cohesion.
KIM: It doesn't make any sense. We knew about the subspace radiation and we ran dozens of simulations before we brought the new drive online.
JANEWAY: Have you tried taking the core offline?
TORRES: It's not stopping the problem.
JANEWAY: Try to isolate the cause of this, and stabilise the sections that have already been affected. Dismissed.

[Paris' quarters]

TORRES: Computer, begin Chief Engineer's Log, supplemental. I've spent the last four hours analysing the warp field schematics, but I'm still no closer to finding out what's going wrong. Computer, did it just get colder in here?
COMPUTER: Negative.
TORRES: Raise the temperature by five degrees.
(She goes into the bathroom, and sees a silver patch on her cheek.)

[Corridor]

KIM: Hungry?
PARIS: Ah, can't join you tonight. Dinner with B'Elanna.
KIM: Married one day and you're already domesticated.
PARIS: Jealous? Good night, Harry.

[Paris' quarters]

PARIS: B'Elanna? If we're going to live together we're going to have to compromise on the temperature. Computer, reset environmental controls to standard. B'Elanna!
(He finds her shivering on the bathroom floor.)
PARIS: Shush.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Bring her in, quickly. It looks like we've got an epidemic on our hands.

[Doctor's office]

JANEWAY: Acute cellular degradation?
EMH: Their chromosomes are breaking down at the molecular level.
JANEWAY: Proximity to the warp field?
EMH: I believe so. B'Elanna and my other three patients all work in Engineering. They've been subjected to the heaviest exposure. But preliminary scans suggest the rest of the crew has been affected as well, including the Captain. It's only a matter of time before you begin showing the same symptoms.
JANEWAY: We've shut down the warp drive. The ship is still deteriorating and so are we. Why?

[Mess hall]

TUVOK: Every bulkhead and conduit from deck one to fifteen show signs of molecular de-cohesion.
NEELIX: Even food from the replicator shows signs of decay.
CHAKOTAY: As soon as anything comes into contact with Voyager's atmosphere, it's affected.
NEELIX: That's what we thought at first but take a look at this. These vegetables are completely free of decay.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said the replicators
NEELIX: They weren't replicated. I harvested them on an away mission last week. The same goes for these particle accelerators, the trilithium ore samples, the keg of Hazari ale. All of them were brought aboard over the last few months, and none of them is disintegrating.
TUVOK: We haven't been able to narrow the time frame precisely, but it appears that anything brought on board over the past thirty to forty weeks is immune.
CHAKOTAY: Something happened to the ship months ago that's causing this decay.
TUVOK: A logical conclusion.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Eight months, seventeen days ago, first contact with the Kmada.
CHAKOTAY: They tried to sabotage our life-support systems with low-frequency theta radiation. Any chance that could have caused the phenomenon?
TUVOK: Unlikely.
CHAKOTAY: Let's keep looking.
TUVOK: The next event of note took place nine months, two days ago when the N'Kree tried to conscript Voyager into their battle fleet.
CHAKOTAY: And failed. Next?

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Hey.
TORRES: Hey.
PARIS: How's my old lady?
TORRES: Well enough to break your nose if you call me that again.
PARIS: Here it is.
TORRES: What?
(He slides an isolinear chip into her hand.)
PARIS: Our honeymoon.
TORRES: Tell me.
PARIS: Six days and seven nights in the historic Graystone Hotel in beautiful downtown Chicago, circa 1928. Wait till you see it. Crystal chandeliers, wall to wall Italian marble. We'll take a drive up Michigan Avenue in a vintage Duesenberg, hobnob with the stars of the silver screen, dance the Charleston at a genuine speakeasy called the Green Mill.
TORRES: What do I wear?
PARIS: That's already taken care of. Our bags are packed and waiting for us at the hotel.
TORRES: Champagne?
PARIS: It's on ice, in a silver bucket right next to our canopy bed. B'Elanna? Doctor!
EMH: Cortical stimulator. Initiate an iso-synaptic pulse. It's not working. Again! Increase the electrolytic levels to seventy five millijoules. We've lost her.
PARIS: Increasing electrolytic levels to ninety millijoules.
EMH: There's nothing more we can do.
PARIS: Maybe we can try a direct neural resequencing.
EMH: Lieutenant.
PARIS: We can't just let her die!
EMH: Return to your quarters.
PARIS: No! I don't want to leave her.
EMH: I understand. But I need to perform an analysis before her cells have completely degraded. Please.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Nine months, twenty eight days. We collected silicate from a comet in the Podaris sector.
CHAKOTAY: According to Neelix's manifest, those samples are stored in the geology lab. They're showing no signs of molecular degradation. Take us further back.
TUVOK: Ten months, eleven days ago. Voyager was forced to land on a class Y planetoid in the Vaskan sector.
CHAKOTAY: The Demon class planet. One of our more interesting missions. We set down looking for deuterium and ended up helping a new form of life to be born.
TUVOK: The planet possessed a biomimetic compound.
CHAKOTAY: The silver blood. It sampled our DNA and created duplicates of the entire crew.
TUVOK: I've often wondered what happened to them. Are they flourishing? Have they continued to evolve?
CHAKOTAY: Do they still resemble us?

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Is she?
EMH: I'm afraid so.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for traces of deuterium, hydrogen sulphate and dichromates.
EMH: Dichromates?
CHAKOTAY: Just do it.
EMH: What's this about?
TUVOK: We have a disturbing theory.
EMH: I'm detecting all of those compounds.
CHAKOTAY: I want you to inject her with a dichromate catalyst.
EMH: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: We've got to be sure.
(The EMH does so, and Torres dissolves into a silver liquid.)
EMH: I don't understand.
CHAKOTAY: That wasn't B'Elanna. It was a duplicate. A biomimetic copy.
EMH: Copy?
TUVOK: We are all duplicates. None of us are real.
(Later, Janeway is looking at a flask of silver liquid.)
EMH: Behold the primordial soup.
JANEWAY: That's what created us?
CHAKOTAY: Not just us. The entire ship is composed of the same material.
EMH: It's a biomimetic compound that duplicated the crew's molecular structure so precisely that I would never have detected it, if I hadn't known what to look for.
JANEWAY: I was born on Earth in Indiana. I remember growing up there. I remember graduating from the Academy. I have no memory of being a copy.
EMH: Apparently, the original Kathryn Janeway's memories were duplicated as well. Somehow, after the real Voyager left, we began to forget we were duplicates.
CHAKOTAY: Eventually, we assumed their lives and set a course for Earth.
JANEWAY: And now the warp core is breaking down our cellular structure. We didn't think the radiation would hurt us because it isn't harmful to humanoids.
EMH: Each and every one of you will disintegrate just as B'Elanna did. I'm not immune, either. The holo-emitters, like everything else, are copies. It's only a matter of time before my programme begins to degrade.
JANEWAY: What can we do to stop the process?
CHAKOTAY: There is one option. Go back.
JANEWAY: To the Demon class planet?
CHAKOTAY: We were created to survive there.
TUVOK: He's correct. It's reasonable to assume that if we return to our native environment, the degradation will cease.
JANEWAY: Even if we survived the trip, we'd be travelling thousands of light years in the wrong direction.
CHAKOTAY: It may be the only way.
JANEWAY: Duplicate or not, I'm still the same person I was yesterday and so are all of you, and that means we're going to do everything possible to complete our mission, which is to reach Earth. Is that clear?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I want you to adjust the environmental controls to simulate a class Y planet. That should slow the rate of degradation.
TUVOK: It's only a matter of time before the environmental controls themselves are affected.
JANEWAY: I realise that. That's why we're going to try and find a safe harbour till we can figure out a way to stop the degradation. Scan for the nearest class Y planet and set a course. In the meantime, I'll explain our situation to the crew.

[Mess hall]

(The mess hall is an emergency ward.
JANEWAY: There's still a great deal we don't know about this phenomenon, and I have every confidence we'll find a way to reverse it.
KIM: So you're saying all our experiences before we were duplicated, none of it's real?
JANEWAY: I don't pretend to understand it myself, Harry, but the way I choose to look at it is this. If everything about us was duplicated, that includes our memory engrams, the emotional centres of our brain. So if you feel something, remember something, believe something, I'm not about to tell you it's not real.
NEELIX: But there is another crew out there, right? The real Voyager.
JANEWAY: I suppose there is, but I don't want that thought to distract any of you from our mission.
PARIS: What mission is that?
JANEWAY: The same as it's always been, Tom. To reach the Alpha Quadrant safe and sound. But to do that we're going to have to beat this problem, and for now that means conserving energy, running the ship in grey mode, cutting crew shifts in half. The less you exert yourselves, the slower the cellular decay. Duplicates or not, you're still my crew. Dismissed.
(Janeway and some crew leave.)
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: There's no one here by that name.
KIM: I just wanted to say, I'm sorry about B'Elanna.
PARIS: Sorry? What for?
KIM: She was your wife.
PARIS: She was a duplicate, just like you are, Harry.
KIM: You heard the Captain. If we're going to survive this, we've got to believe in ourselves.
PARIS: You can drop the good soldier routine. You don't have to do everything the Captain says anymore. Hell, she's not even the Captain.
KIM: She is to me.
PARIS: Okay. Well, let's suppose she does get us back to Earth. What then? You really think your family is going to welcome you with open arms?
KIM: I don't know.
PARIS: For all you know the real Harry Kim is having Sunday dinner with them right now. And you come strolling through the door, they're going to see you for exactly what you are. An impostor.
KIM: So what are we going to do, huh? Wait around till we all disintegrate?

[Janeway's quarters]

(Janeway places a vase of pink tulips on the table.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Chicken paprikash. My grandmother's recipe. Well, maybe not my grandmother, but it's still delicious. It's our weekly dinner together. Don't tell me you forgot.
CHAKOTAY: We've lost three more people. We've got to head back.
JANEWAY: I've spent the past five years trying to get this crew home. I'm not about to quit now.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to yourself. You haven't even been alive for five years. Home is a class Y planet in the Delta Quadrant. We don't belong on Earth.
JANEWAY: How do you know where we belong? For all we know, the real Voyager's been destroyed and we're all that's left. For all we know, we're supposed to be living their lives.
CHAKOTAY: That's a pretty big assumption, and it's putting this crew in danger.
JANEWAY: There's only one thing I know how to be, Chakotay, and that's Kathryn Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to think I know Kathryn Janeway pretty well myself. And as much as she'd like to get her crew home, I don't think she'd be willing to kill them in the process.
JANEWAY: Maybe this dinner wasn't such a good idea after all.

[Mess hall]

(The outer hull is rippling.)
EMH: I've tried everything I could think of. Biomolecular enhancers, gene splicing with replicated DNA, and I'm no closer to finding a cure. But I do have an idea.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
EMH: Find the original Voyager. If the real Captain Janeway were here, we could sample her DNA and imprint it onto your mimetic pattern.
JANEWAY: But Doctor, we have no way of knowing where they are. They could be behind us, ahead of us, back on Earth, destroyed. Besides, even if we could find the real Janeway, how do we know she'd help?
EMH: She's you. My emitter is starting to degrade.
JANEWAY: You'd better get back to Sickbay.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to the Captain. Sensors have detected a class Y planet.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]

KIM: It may not be home, but it checks out. Thermionic radiation, surface temperatures in excess of five hundred Kelvins.
JANEWAY: Just what the Doctor ordered. Safe harbour?
CHAKOTAY: There's no guarantee this is going to work.
JANEWAY: Harry, vent all plasma from the nacelles, transfer available power to atmospheric thrusters and stand by to commence landing sequence.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
PARIS: Landing struts online. Inertial dampers at maximum.
JANEWAY: Take us down, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: Captain, a vessel is approaching from the planet surface.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(It looks like a freighter.)
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
ALIEN [OC]: You're in direct violation of the Ord'Mirit mining treaty. Leave orbit or you'll be destroyed.
TUVOK: They are firing weapons.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We are not your enemy.
CHAKOTAY: They seem to disagree.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in your mining operation. Our ship is badly damaged. We need to set down on the surface to make repairs.
ALIEN [OC]: We repeat. Leave or be destroyed.
TUVOK: Shields down to fifty two percent.
CHAKOTAY: With our systems degrading, we won't be able to take this much longer.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons systems. Fire.
TUVOK: No effect. Hull breaches on decks eleven, fourteen and fifteen.
KIM: The damaged sections are turning into biomimetic matter. Containment fields are failing.
JANEWAY: Evacuate those decks.
TUVOK: If we emit a polaron burst, we can disable their shields long enough to target their warp core.
JANEWAY: No, we're not going to destroy them over a misunderstanding.
TUVOK: Either that or retreat.
JANEWAY: We're Starfleet officers, we can't forget that. Break orbit.
PARIS: That planet may be our last chance for survival.
JANEWAY: We'll have to find another option.
PARIS: I'm not sure why we're still taking orders from you.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, follow orders or leave the bridge.
TUVOK: The alien vessel's not pursuing.
JANEWAY: Begin scanning for other class Y planets. Harry, transmit a distress call on all subspace bands. If the real Voyager is out there, I want to find them.
PARIS: In the meantime, which direction do you want me to go?
JANEWAY: Resume course for the Alpha Quadrant, Mister Paris.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I know what you're going to say and I don't want to hear it.
CHAKOTAY: Too bad.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to take a little insolence from Tom, but I shouldn't have to remind you that I'm still the Captain.
CHAKOTAY: You're not. You're a biomimetic lifeform created in her image.
JANEWAY: Are you saying you're not taking orders from me anymore?
CHAKOTAY: I'm saying you need to step back and look at our situation objectively.
JANEWAY: You think I should have given the order to fire on that vessel.
CHAKOTAY: No, I agreed with your decision to stand down. But how long can we adhere to Starfleet principles before we start making compromises?
JANEWAY: As long as it takes. Our ship may be deteriorating, but our humanity is intact.
CHAKOTAY: Belief alone won't hold this ship together.
JANEWAY: It's gotten us this far.
CHAKOTAY: Not far enough. Tom and I aren't the only ones who question your decisions. Now that the truth is known, a lot of people think we should turn around and head for the class Y planet. They're starting to remember their existence before Voyager.
JANEWAY: What, what existence? Pools of biomimetic fluid? We didn't even experience sentience until Voyager came along.
CHAKOTAY: What good is sentience if we're not alive to experience it? Kathryn, we've got to go back.
JANEWAY: I promised the crew I'd get them home.
CHAKOTAY: Home isn't Earth.
(Chakotay's face ripples.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay, medical emergency.

[Sickbay]

EMH: He's not responding. His neural pathways are destabilising.
(Long single tone.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We've lost Commander Chakotay. Duplicate or not, he was real to me and he was a fine Starfleet officer. And he was a friend who wasn't afraid to let me know when I am wrong. Mister Kim, bring the enhanced warp drive online. Turn Voyager around. We're going home.
PARIS: Captain?
JANEWAY: Set a course for the Demon planet.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've lost sixty three crewmen, and our systems are continuing to fail. Though we're still five weeks away from the Demon Planet, we haven't given up hope.

[Briefing room]

(Seven is there. Everyone's face is nearly covered in silver blisters.)
KIM: The holographic projectors in Sickbay went offline at oh three hundred. We've lost the Doctor.
JANEWAY: What's Tom's condition?
KIM: No change.
JANEWAY: Well, looks like we're in the market for a new medical officer. Feel up to it, Neelix?
NEELIX: I've only been trained as a field medic.
JANEWAY: It'll have to do.
NEELIX: What about my other duties?
JANEWAY: Make Sickbay your priority. At this point morale is a luxury. How's the core holding up?
SEVEN: The modified nanoprobes are still reinforcing the warp field. It should remain functioning until we reach the Demon Planet. However, there is less than a twenty percent probability that Voyager will remain intact that long.
JANEWAY: Well, it won't be the first time this crew has been up against
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: It's all right, I'm just a little tired.
NEELIX: Let Ensign Kim take command for a little while.
JANEWAY: I'm still the Captain.
NEELIX: And I am the Chief Medical Officer. Don't force me to relieve you of your duties.
JANEWAY: Your concerns have been noted, sir. Now, there is another matter. I want to download the ship's database and our personal logs into a signal beacon. In the event we don't survive, there should be some record of our accomplishments.
KIM: A time capsule.
JANEWAY: This crew's existence may have been brief, but it's been distinguished. None of you deserves to be forgotten.
SEVEN: I will use unaffected components to construct a beacon.

[Bridge]

KIM: The deflector's offline. Interstellar dust is contaminating the warp field.
JANEWAY: Purge it.
SEVEN: I can't. The exhaust manifolds have disintegrated.
JANEWAY: We've come too far to be stopped by dust. Reroute auxiliary power to the deflector.
SEVEN: Warp field failure in eight, seven, six, five, four, three
KIM: Got it.
SEVEN: Reinitialising the deflector. The warp field has stabilised.
NEELIX: I may not be morale officer anymore, but I think this is a cause for celebration. What do you say, Captain? Captain?
(Neelix scans Janeway.)
NEELIX: She's gone.

KIM [OC]: Acting Captain's log, stardate 52597.4. Our situation's getting worse every day. More than eighty percent of the ship is uninhabitable. Most of the crew are gone. It seems less and less likely that the few of us left will reach our destination.

[Bridge]

(Neelix is still on his feet, tending the sick in the mess hall. Kim is the only bridge officer.)
KIM: Computer, hull status.
COMPUTER: Hull integrity at forty five percent.
(Whumph!)
KIM: What was that?
COMPUTER: Cargo bay two has decompressed.
KIM: Seal off that deck.
(He sees the bulkhead behind his old station ripple)
KIM: Computer, erect a level ten force field around the bridge.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
KIM: Seven, I need more power up here. The bulkheads are coming apart.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: I'm transferring the last of our power reserves.
COMPUTER: Deck one force field is in place.

[Bridge]

KIM: That's better. How's life support?
SEVEN [OC]: Degrading.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: We have approximately ten hours of air remaining.

[Bridge]

KIM: What about the time capsule?
SEVEN [OC]: It's ready for launch.
KIM: Do it.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: The launch sequencer has misfired.
KIM [OC]: Reset the

[Bridge]

KIM: Initiator. Try it again.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: It won't work. The launch mechanism is demolecularised.

[Bridge]

KIM: Salvage the probe.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: It's too late. It's been destroyed.

[Bridge]

KIM: Personal logs, mission logs, all our history, gone. Now what?

[Engineering]

SEVEN: I'm detecting a vessel twenty two light years away.

[Bridge]

KIM: I see it. I'm trying to hail them. The subspace transceiver's malfunctioning. If they move out of range, they won't see us. We still have one active comm. circuit but we'll have to go to impulse to use it. Seven, drop out of warp.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: The engine controls are fused.

[Bridge]

KIM: Then unfuse them.
SEVEN [OC]: Without an isolitic

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Converter, I cannot comply.

[Bridge]

KIM: Dump the core.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Ensign, dropping out of warp at this velocity could

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: Tear the ship apart.
KIM: We're already falling apart. We're not going to make it

[Engineering]

KIM [OC]: To the class Y planet in one piece

[Bridge]

KIM: Which means that ship is our only hope. Think about it. What would Captain Janeway have done?

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Computer, prepare to eject the warp core. Authorisation Seven of Nine, omega phi nine three.
COMPUTER: Warp ejection systems enabled.
SEVEN: Eject the core.
(There is a bang, and everyone is thrown around.)
SEVEN: We've lost attitude control and shields. Hull integrity at nineteen percent.

[Bridge]

KIM: Reroute life support! Hell, reroute everything we've got left to the containment fields.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Hull breaches on

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Decks nine, ten and eleven.
KIM: Seven. Seven! Computer, how long until we're within hailing range of that ship?
COMPUTER: Five minutes and thirty four seconds.

[The real Voyager Bridge]

JANEWAY: Range?
PARIS: Five million kilometres.
JANEWAY: Try hailing again.
TUVOK: No response.
KIM: Captain, I've found the source of the distress call. It's coming from a vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Can you identify it?
KIM: No, the readings are erratic. Looks like they've taken heavy damage.
PARIS: Four hundred thousand kilometres.
JANEWAY: Drop to impulse. Are the rescue teams ready? Bridge to Sickbay, stand by for casualties.
TUVOK: In visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(The viewscreen is filled with a cloud of silver globules.)
J ANEWAY: Where's the ship?
KIM: No sign of it.
CHAKOTAY: That debris, that couldn't be all that's left.
TUVOK: I'm detecting residual deuterium, anti-neutrons, traces of dichromates. If it was a vessel, it isn't any more.
JANEWAY: Scan for lifesigns, escape pods.
TUVOK: None.
JANEWAY: Make a note in the ship's record. We received a distress call at oh nine hundred hours. Arrived at the vessel's last known coordinates at twenty one twenty. The ship was destroyed. Cause unknown. No survivors. Mister Paris, resume course.
PARIS: Aye, sir.


S5 E19
The Fight
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 24 March 1999

[Sickbay]
(Commander Chakotay is on a biobed, hot, sweaty and frantic. Paris tries to hold him down.)
CHAKOTAY: No! Make them stop!
EMH: Anything?
SEVEN: Nothing of relevance. His neural pathways are still fluctuating.
PARIS: Doc! Can't you do something? Look how much he's suffering.
EMH: If I sedate him we could lose any chance of making contact with the aliens.
CHAKOTAY: Get them out!
EMH: Commander, can you hear me? Focus on the sound of my voice.
CHAKOTAY: I can't understand them. They won't stop talking!
EMH: What are they saying?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know! Make them stop, please!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay. Any progress, Doctor?
EMH [OC]: It's not going well.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Our ambassador is still delusional.
JANEWAY [OC]: We're running out of time.

[Bridge]

TORRES: The graviton shear is buckling the hull. If we don't find a way out of Chaotic space soon, we're going to die here,

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. Despite my efforts, Chakotay's condition continues to deteriorate.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Doctor!
EMH: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm tired. I want to sleep.
EMH: If you lose consciousness, it could sever your link with the aliens.
CHAKOTAY: Aliens?
EMH: The ones who live in this place. We're trapped here. They may know a way out. It's urgent that you speak with them.
CHAKOTAY: But I don't understand what they're saying.
EMH: I can try to help you understand.
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to end up like my grandfather. A crazy old man.
EMH: No, you're not crazy. I believe the aliens are reconfiguring your neural pathways so they can communicate with you. Do you remember the day you were injured on the holodeck?
CHAKOTAY: In the boxing simulation?
EMH: Yes. You were knocked down, remember?
CHAKOTAY: I was injured. I came to see you. We had an argument.
EMH: That's right. Try to remember more about the holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: I was sparring with a Terrellian, and Boothby was there. He used to train me when I was a cadet.
EMH: Keep going. What round was it?
CHAKOTAY: Three. Round three. The fight was going badly. I was avoiding my opponent.

[Holodeck - Boxing programme]

(And back we go into Chakotay's memories of a slightly grubby gym.)
BOOTHBY: Stay away from the ropes, son. That's it, that's it.
COMPUTER: End of round three.
CHAKOTAY: That wasn't so bad.
BOOTHBY: It was terrible.
CHAKOTAY: Am I missing something? He barely landed a glove on me.
BOOTHBY: Give him time. You're not reading him. You think he's slow and stupid. I know better. In fact, I know his kind in my bones. Literally. I can count the fractures, if you'd like.
CHAKOTAY: He's not landing any punches.
BOOTHBY: That's the problem. You're not letting him.
CHAKOTAY: Have I got this sport all wrong?
BOOTHBY: Boxing is more about taking the shots than dishing them out. You shouldn't be dancing away from this fellow. Let him punch himself out a little. It all comes down to the heart. Do you have the heart for this? That's the contest. It's not against him. It's against your own natural human desire not to get hurt. That's the real fight.
COMPUTER: Begin round four.
BOOTHBY: Go. Go, go, go.
(Chakotay and the Terrellian trade punches properly.)
BOOTHBY: Stay with him. Too close. Come on, come on, break it up. Atta boy. Keep him busy.
(Chakotay sees the holodeck coming apart behind his opponent.)
BOOTHBY: Gloves up!
(The Terrellian knocks Chakotay out.)

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay wakes up on a biobed. The EMH holds up fingers.)
EMH: How many?
CHAKOTAY: Three.
EMH: Good guess. I've got a good mind to use a needle and thread. Add a little authenticity to your fun.
CHAKOTAY: Be my guest
EMH: You'd like that. A manly scar above your eye. Chakotay, the Maquis Mauler. Pointless violence. That programme shouldn't even be in our database.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing like a good fight, Doctor. I was there when Pryce-Jones went twenty three rounds with Gul Tulet. The Knockout in the Neutral Zone. Best match I ever saw.
EMH: Really? Most blood spilled, or did Pryce-Jones drive Gul Tulet's nasal bone up into his brain?
CHAKOTAY: You've got the wrong idea.
EMH: The idea is simple enough. Do enough damage to your opponent to render him unconscious. How's the headache?
CHAKOTAY: It hurts.
EMH: Oedema beneath the anterior fossa of the cranium. Hairline fracture of the septum.
CHAKOTAY: I saw something strange.
EMH: I'll bet you did.
CHAKOTAY: No, before I got hit.
EMH: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I looked over at Boothby. He yelled at me. I turned back, then the ring got distorted.
EMH: An hallucination. You probably had some pressure building up along the optic nerves from a previous blow.
CHAKOTAY: No, I was keeping away from him the whole fight. He never touched me.
EMH: Hmm. A number of the ganglia in your visual cortex are hyperactive. Your opponent wasn't firing on you with an energy weapon, was he?
CHAKOTAY: Just his gloves.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY [OC]: Chakotay to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
EMH: I want you back in here for some tests, unless you want to be seeing things on a regular basis.

[Bridge]

KIM: It's changed course again. Twenty thousand kilometres off starboard.
(Chakotay has changed into his uniform before reporting for duty.)
CHAKOTAY: Ion storm?
JANEWAY: Not exactly. It's two light years across, emits enough energy for a dozen stars, it doesn't match any phenomenon in our database, and it won't sit still.
KIM: Okay, eleven thousand kilometres off the port bow.
TUVOK: We are too close.
PARIS: I'm backing us off.
TUVOK: The phenomenon has been shifting positions every few minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing so massive could move that fast.
JANEWAY: Full reverse. Maximum shields.
(Voyager is engulfed by wibbly space.)
JANEWAY: Full stop. Anybody want to tell me where we are?
TUVOK: We appear to be inside the disturbance.
KIM: I'm picking up a lot of raw data. Subspace flux, graviton waves. Sensors must be confused. The readings are shifting around so much I can't make heads or tails of what's out there.
SEVEN [OC]: Captain, this is Seven of Nine. Please report to Astrometrics at once.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The Borg have been aware of this phenomenon for many years. It is a zone where the law of physics are in a state of flux. Chaotic space. 
JANEWAY: Why didn't sensors warn us in time?
SEVEN: Chaotic space appears randomly and unexpectedly. The Borg have observed it throughout the galaxy.
TUVOK: Then why hasn't a Federation starship encountered anything like this?
SEVEN: No doubt some have.
CHAKOTAY: Think of all the Starfleet vessels that disappeared under mysterious circumstances.
SEVEN: Borg vessels are more advanced, but only one Cube has survived an encounter with Chaotic space.
CHAKOTAY: Those aren't good odds.
TUVOK: If the physical constants are shifting, our sensors can't function.
SEVEN: The problem is here. Changes in the gravitational coefficient will cause sudden shear forces against our hull. Shields will protect us, but only for a time.
JANEWAY: How much time?
SEVEN: Unknown.
JANEWAY: We've got to recalibrate the sensors, redesign them if necessary, otherwise we're flying blind. Let's get to work.

[Chakotay's quarters]

(Chakotay is working at his desk. He keeps hearing strange noises.)
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, did you say something?
COMPUTER: Negative.
(He sees his boxing gloves on a chair, and hears the noise of a crowd.)
BOOTHBY [OC]: Pick them up, son. It's the fight you've been waiting for.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Please report to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
(He looks back, and the gloves have vanished.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Graviton wave displacement says we're moving at warp six. Subspace sensors show we're standing still.
PARIS: We can't be that far from where we entered. Maybe we should just set a course, go to impulse and see what happens.
TUVOK: What would most likely happen is a collision with an asteroid field or a star.
PARIS: That'd be better than just sitting here waiting for.
CHAKOTAY: Report.
KIM: Torsional shear has increased by two hundred percent.
CHAKOTAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
PARIS: Like I was saying. Better than just sitting here waiting for our hull to breach.
TUVOK: Perhaps we could drop a series of beacons to help us navigate.
PARIS: Now that's an idea.
(Chakotay hears the bell.)
CHAKOTAY: Did you hear something?
TUVOK: I heard nothing unusual.
PARIS: I didn't hear anything.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
PARIS: I'll plot a course. We'll take it slow. What do you think, Chakotay?
MC [OC]: The Challenger, Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: Don't you hear that?
PARIS: Hear what? 
CHAKOTAY: Look.
(The boxing gloves on on Kim's station.)
TUVOK: Commander. Are you all right?
BOOTHBY [OC]: Put on the gloves, son.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not ready.
TUVOK: Commander.
MC [OC]: In this corner, wearing the red trunks.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
(Chakotay starts punching the air.)
PARIS: Bridge to Sickbay. We've got a medical emergency.
(Chakotay swings at Tuvok, who delivers a neck pinch.)

[Sickbay]

(The EMH's singing voice is going up in octaves.)
EMH: Laaaa. Laaaa. Lets go to eight hundred eighty hertz. Laaaa.
JANEWAY: Music lessons?
CHAKOTAY: Pretty soon we'll be singing duets.
EMH: I'm checking to see if there's been any damage to the auditory nerves. Nothing so far. His vision checks out as well. I'm afraid the source of the trouble may be a little deeper.
CHAKOTAY: The family curse.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: Chakotay has the genetic marker for a cognitive disorder. Sensory tremens. The primary symptoms are visual and auditory hallucinations.
CHAKOTAY: My family doctor suppressed the gene before I was even born, so I never had to go through what the others did, like my grandfather.
EMH: For some reason, the gene's been switched on. I'm not saying for certain that's why Chakotay thought he was getting ready for a prize-fight, but it's a good bet. The holodeck boxing simulation was fresh in his memory. A few misfiring neurons did the rest.
JANEWAY: This Chaotic space we've entered, could it be stimulating the gene?
EMH: Possibly. The only way to make certain would be to get the ship out of here. In the meantime, the Commander will have to stay in Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Tuvok tells me you've got a mean left jab.
CHAKOTAY: Never spar with a Vulcan.
JANEWAY: How are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: I'm all right. When I was a boy, my grandfather started seeing things nobody else could see, hearing what nobody else could hear. He refused treatment. A couple of hyposprays a day, that's all he would have needed, but he was stubborn. He said his spirit was in pain, but that the wound must be honoured. Crazy old man.

[Bridge]

KIM: Ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven. Bring the grid back online.
SEVEN [OC]: Stand by.
KIM: We've got sensors. Scanning to one hundred thousand kilometres, seven hundred thousand.
TUVOK: Sensors are stable to one million kilometres. We won't be able to scan any further.
JANEWAY: Are you picking up anything at that range?
KIM: No planets, no asteroid fields, no sink holes.
PARIS: Good enough for me.
JANEWAY: Set a course dead ahead, one quarter impulse. Sensor status?
TUVOK: Continuing to function.
KIM: Still nothing ahead.
JANEWAY: Good. Let's increase our speed. Mister Paris, go to half impulse.
KIM: Wait! It's a ship.
TUVOK: Warp capable. It's adrift and the outer hull is damaged.
KIM: No lifesigns.
JANEWAY: Let's take a closer look.

[Briefing room]

(The other ship is visible through the windows.)
JANEWAY: Computer, let's hear that again.
ALIEN [OC]: Why won't you answer? Did you give up on me for being so late? It's not my fault. We got lost in here. Why do the stars make such a noise? Let me sleep! I don't understand them, I don't want to talk to them. I just want to go home.
TUVOK: That was the final distress call.
EMH: According to the vessel's medical records, the Captain and one of his engineers started hallucinating after they entered this space. The physician on board never found a way to treat them.
JANEWAY: How long were they stranded here?
KIM: Almost a year. Eventually their systems were compromised.
EMH: They died of exposure.
KIM: The sensors in that ship are more advanced than ours, and they couldn't find a way out.
JANEWAY: Let's hold our position until we get a better idea of what we're up against.
TORRES: It looks like that's what they did.
PARIS: Along the way, a couple of them started sounding just like Chakotay.
EMH: I can't believe that's a coincidence.
TUVOK: Then why hasn't anyone else been affected?
EMH: That's a question I can't answer. Not yet. Request permission to beam their captain's body on board. I'd like to perform an autopsy.
JANEWAY: Granted. Pull the sensor technology off that ship. Use it to enhance ours. We're going to need all the help we can get.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I made a deep scan of the alien's brain tissue and sensory organs. The optic and auditory neurons have been partially stripped of their normal protein insulation. The result, auditory and visual hallucinations.
JANEWAY: The same symptoms as Chakotay, but a different cause.
EMH: Exactly. In this case the gene responsible for producing protein insulation was shut down.
CHAKOTAY: By what?
EMH: There might be something in Chaotic space that reacts with DNA, alters it. But why it targeted him specifically and now you I can't say.
JANEWAY: Is there a treatment?
EMH: I can control the hallucinations using a neural suppressant, but unless I can find a way to deactivate that gene of yours
CHAKOTAY: I need to go on a vision quest. Captain?
EMH: That's not the best idea right now. A vision quest taps directly into your frontal cortex. It could agitate your mind.
CHAKOTAY: Or help me control it.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
EMH: Very well. I will ask you to wear a cortical monitor. It'll help me keep track of your vital signs.

[Chakotay's quarters]

(Chakotay activates the Akoonah and picks up his chamozee river stone.)
CHAKOTAY: A-koo-chee-moya. I am far from the sacred places of my grandfathers, I am far from the bones of my people. But perhaps there is a powerful being who will embrace me and give me the answers I seek.

[Vision quest - forest]

CHAKOTAY: Grandfather! what are you doing here?
GRANDFATHER: I, er seem to be lost. Just a little lost.
CHAKOTAY: You didn't take your medicine this morning.
GRANDFATHER: Which medicine are you talking about? There are many medicines.
CHAKOTAY: The one the hospital gave us.
GRANDFATHER: Oh, that one.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
GRANDFATHER: My spirit doesn't want that medicine.
CHAKOTAY: I don't care what your spirit wants. You're going to take it.
GRANDFATHER: I don't think so.
CHAKOTAY: Come with me back to the house.
GRANDFATHER: Now why would I want to do that? It's better where I'm going. It's more interesting.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
GRANDFATHER: To the place where my spirit lives.
CHAKOTAY: Grandfather! Where are you? Answer me!
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
(Chakotay walks into - )

[Vision quest - boxing ring]

COMPUTER: Begin round one.

[Sickbay]

(And we are caught up to date.)
CHAKOTAY: The aliens. They were there, watching me.
EMH: Inside your vision quest?
CHAKOTAY: They were trying to tell me something.
EMH: What was it?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
EMH: Are they with you now? Can you hear them?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
EMH: Let them speak to you.
CHAKOTAY: No! They'll make me go crazy.
EMH: You're not going crazy. They're doing this for a reason. You've got to trust them. Stop fighting. Open your mind. Let go. Listen.
CHAKOTAY: Chaotic space intersects ours at the eighteenth dimensional gradient. Voyager entered through a trimetric fracture.
EMH: Trimetric fracture?
CHAKOTAY: We must escape, or we'll be destroyed.
EMH: How do we escape?
CHAKOTAY: We've got to alter our warp field.
EMH: In what way?
CHAKOTAY: Rentrillic projectory.
EMH: Rentrillic?
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't make any sense. I can't understand it. I'm scared I'm losing my mind.
EMH: Try to focus!
CHAKOTAY: It's too much! I can't! It's too much!
EMH: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: Get them out!
(A little later.)
JANEWAY: First contact?
EMH: It was brief, but he definitely communicated with them.
JANEWAY: Rentrillic trajectory.
EMH: Unfortunately, they never got around to explaining what that meant.
JANEWAY: Could be some sort of alien geometry, but we'll need much more. Is it safe for him to try to make contact again?
EMH: Medically speaking, yes. The problem is convincing the Commander of that.
(Janeway goes to Chakotay's biobed.)
JANEWAY: I realise you're frightened, but you're our only hope out of this place. You think this could risk your sanity, but your sanity won't do you any good if we remain in Chaotic space. I need you to keep trying, Chakotay. Will you keep trying? (he nods.) Keep me posted.
EMH: Are you ready to continue? Try to focus on the alien voices, tell me what they're saying.
CHAKOTAY: I can't hear them.
EMH: Are you sure? Listen carefully. Maybe we can return you to a more receptive frame of mind. Think back to when you first heard them in the vision quest. What were you doing? Where were you?
CHAKOTAY: In their boxing ring. A strange ring.
EMH: Was anyone else there?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. My opponent, Kid Chaos.
EMH: Describe him.

[Chaotic boxing ring]

(The boxing ring is a quadrilateral with one very short side. Kid Chaos has his back to us and is wearing a golden robe. Tuvok and two security guards are armed with rifles.)
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, move into position.
TUVOK: Thompson and Sharr, target the midsection. Ensign MacAlister, you and I will aim for the head.
CHAKOTAY: Set your phasers to kill.
BOOTHBY: Not exactly the Marquis of Queensberry rules, now, is it? Set to kill? That's not even Starfleet! Put down the weapons, son.
TUVOK: Tactical advice from an Academy groundskeeper? We fire at your command, sir.
BOOTHBY: Give that order and you'll be out for the count, the whole lot of you.
CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapons.
TUVOK: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I said, stand down.
(Now Chakotay is in boxing gear. Boothby is his second, Paris his manager.)
PARIS: We've just heard from Vegas, Mars and Orion Three. The odds are running thirty three to one that he'll outpoint you. Eleven to one that you'll be k-o'ed by the fifth. Subspace radio is calling it the Disaster in the Delta. We can still scratch the card. I'll call the Doctor. We'll get you out on a medical.
BOOTHBY: He's trying to hornswoggle us. Double check those calculations.
CHAKOTAY: Let me see that PADD.
PARIS: No. Fine, don't want to trust your friends? You're on your own.
(Neelix climbs into the ring.)
NEELIX: I'm filing a grievance with the Delta Quadrant Boxing Commission. This bout came out of nowhere. There's some scheduling mix-up. You haven't had the time to train, you're not ready. If you fight now, you'll be destroyed!
CHAKOTAY: I can't fight now. I'm not ready for this! I can't stay here!

[Chaotic Bridge]

(Chakotay is pummeling a punch bag. The briefing room door is open.)
KIM: I follow your example, learn from you, look up to you. I don't want to lose that.
CHAKOTAY: You'll find another role model. You'll be okay.
(In the Ready room doorway.)
JANEWAY: You're my First Officer. Your duty is to this crew. If something happens to me, you've got to get Voyager home.
TUVOK: Tuvok can take command.
(Turbolift.)
TORRES: You're being selfish, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm doing this for you, for all of you!
EMH [on monitor]: A delusion. Dementia puglistica. You're punch-drunk, Commander.

[Chaotic ringside]

(Chakotay is getting a massage from Neelix.)
EMH: A hard shot to the head and neck collapses the carotid artery and cuts the flow of blood to the brain. The hook. The head and neck twist laterally, traumatising the cerebral tissue. And who can forget the upper cut? The head snaps back, rupturing tissue in the cerebellum and upper spinal cord. Yes! And the result of all this poetry in motion? Neurologic dysfunction, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, loss of balance and coordination, loss of memory. Starting to sound familiar?
NEELIX: Chakotay's fine. He just needs a little conditioning, that's all.
EMH: He needs to listen to his doctor and not to his fantasies. Step into that arena and you'll become what you most fear.
NEELIX: What are you talking about?
EMH: He knows what I mean, don't you, Chakotay? Hmm?
NEELIX: What's wrong?
EMH: Victory. Defeat. Knockout. TKO. It's all beside the point. We know how it really ends. A crazy old man. It's your fate, your destiny. There's no escape.

[Chaotic Engineering]

(Chakotay is on a training run.)
NEELIX: You just got to do your best. You can't let yourself give into your fears.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not afraid.
NEELIX: Who said you were?

[Vision Quest - Forest]

CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry! Please, come back!
GRANDFATHER: They got away.
CHAKOTAY: Grandfather, where did you go?
GRANDFATHER: Some people were shouting at me. They were going for a walk. They wanted me to come along. It's hard to follow them. Oh, God, they go to strange places.
CHAKOTAY: I'm supposed to be watching you. We're going to get in trouble if we don't go back home.
GRANDFATHER: Be a good boy and go. We understand.
CHAKOTAY: You have to come with me.
GRANDFATHER: They say you can come with us.
CHAKOTAY: There's nobody else here.
GRANDFATHER: They say you're just like we are.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not! I'm not like you!
GRANDFATHER: It's not so bad. When you get used to it, they're not so bad. They're just a lot of talk. Sometimes I wish they were more quiet, but they like to talk.
CHAKOTAY: Come home.
GRANDFATHER: Oh, I'm too tired. This is a nice place. A nice place to call home.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
GRANDFATHER: Did you hear that?
CHAKOTAY: No.
GRANDFATHER: Yes, you did. There's a lot of them this time.
CHAKOTAY: Tell them to go away!
GRANDFATHER: Go away! They've got other ideas.
CHAKOTAY: I have to go home.
GRANDFATHER: They, they're coming for you.
MC [OC]: The challenger, Chakotay!

[Chaotic boxing ring]

BOOTHBY: Better late than never. They almost scrubbed the bout.
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid.
BOOTHBY: I know you are. You'd be a liar if you said anything else.
CHAKOTAY: But I've always been afraid.
BOOTHBY: I know that too.
MC [OC]: The Champion, Kid Chaos! 
EMH: That's it! All over! The fight's been cancelled on medical grounds. Put them down, let's go. I hear there's some bear-baiting at the arena next door. Have fun.

[Chakotay's quarters]

PARIS: He's coming out of it.
CHAKOTAY: You stopped the fight.
PARIS: You were stuck in the vision quest.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to go back.
EMH: You're going nowhere but Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Let me go.
PARIS: Calm down. It's over for you.
CHAKOTAY: No, let me get in the ring.
PARIS: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Let me back in the ring. Let me
(Paris sedates him.)

[Bridge]

(Voyager drops a beacon.)
KIM: Two hundred thousand kilometres.
JANEWAY: Launch another beacon.
TUVOK: Beacon launched.
KIM: I'm reading a shift of point zero zero three in the graviton shear.
JANEWAY: Status.
TUVOK: Shields holding.
PARIS: Speed is steady at one quarter impulse.
JANEWAY: Maintain course and heading, Mister Paris.
KIM: Sensors are functioning. Our course is still clear.
PARIS: Captain, I recommend we go to three quarters impulse.
TUVOK: Increasing power to the engines could affect Chaotic space. There are too many unknowns.
PARIS: At this speed we should see daylight in about two months. The longer we're in Chaotic space, the longer we're exposed to these unknowns.
TUVOK: His logic is undeniable, Captain. We should increase our speed.
PARIS: Finally.
JANEWAY: Who am I to dispute logic?
KIM: Take a look at this.
(A beacon appears in front of them.)
KIM: It's the first beacon we launched three hours ago.
PARIS: We've been going in circles?
TUVOK: To be precise, one large circle.
JANEWAY: Hold our position.
PARIS: All stop.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Report.
SEVEN: I've applied ten thousand fifty three algorithms to the energy signatures produced by Chaotic space. There is a pattern.
JANEWAY: Order to chaos?
SEVEN: Observe. An isolinear frequency.
JANEWAY: Some kind of signal?
SEVEN: I haven't located the source. It may be natural. A star or quasar that's managed to survive in chaotic space.
JANEWAY: But it could be a transmission.
SEVEN: Possibly.
JANEWAY: Have you tried the standard language decryptions?
SEVEN: All of them, with no success.
JANEWAY: Success seems to be in short supply lately. Oh! Impossible.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: And to think that kept me from getting an A.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: It was the only question I missed in exogenetics my senior year.
EMH: The nucleotide resonance frequency.
JANEWAY: That signal was designed to activate DNA.
EMH: It realigned his molecular bonds.
CHAKOTAY: Now do you believe me? They're the ones who scheduled the fight. They're promoting it. They're putting up the purse.
EMH: His sensory cortex is hyperactive. He's still hallucinating.
CHAKOTAY: It's not an hallucination, not a vision quest. It's a prize-fight!
JANEWAY: Chakotay, do you know me? Do you know where you are?
CHAKOTAY: I know you, Captain. But you stopped the fight. You ruined my career. Nobody will put me on the card after this!
JANEWAY: It's better for you to rest, Chakotay, until we can figure out why this is happening to you.
CHAKOTAY: They want to contact me.
JANEWAY: Who does?
CHAKOTAY: The people who live here.
EMH: This will sedate him.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. You believe somebody lives here, in Chaotic space, and they're trying to communicate with you?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I saw him.
JANEWAY: Tell me about him. What does he look like?
CHAKOTAY: He's got a couple of kilos on me, a few centimetres in height, but I can take him, Captain. I just have to stay off the ropes.
EMH: The Holodeck boxing simulation is still strong in his memory. Obviously, it's the primary source of imagery for his hallucinations.
JANEWAY: What if those hallucinations are being induced for a purpose? Aliens who exist on some perceptual wavelength that our senses can't detect, and the only way for them to communicate with us is to alter our senses. Chakotay's bad gene gave them the opportunity.
EMH: What are you proposing?
JANEWAY: Remember the derelict ship? Two of their crewmembers claimed they were seeing things. Was somebody trying to communicate with them? Was somebody trying to warn them, help them?
EMH: Or trying to destroy them, just as they're trying to destroy us.
JANEWAY: Why go through all the trouble? We're trapped here anyway.
CHAKOTAY: Let me back in the ring.
EMH: Even if this is some kind of alien communication it could harm him. Permanently.
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Graviton shear has increased again. Hull pressure is rising.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain. When have we ever turned away from a first contact?
JANEWAY: Send him back in the ring.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: Some kind of spatial sinkhole just opened up beneath us.
JANEWAY: Full thrusters. Status?
PARIS: We managed to side-step that one but graviton shear has increased by another three hundred and ten percent.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Sickbay here.
JANEWAY [OC]: It's now or never.
EMH: Understood, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to get in there. They're about to ring the bell.
EMH: I'm going  to subject you to a field that will enhance the nucleotide bonds. The gene should become fully activated. Do you understand?
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
EMH: Find us a way out of here.
CHAKOTAY: I'll try.
(The EMH monitors micro cellular scan 407.)

[Chaotic boxing ring]

BOOTHBY: Good idea. Keep him waiting. Let him sweat it out.
MC [OC]: In this corner, representing the Alpha Quadrant, Earth and Humanity. The challenger, Chakotay!
BOOTHBY: Everybody loves an underdog.
MC [OC]: And on this corner, champion of the Delta Quadrant, Kid Chaos!
CHAKOTAY: Looks like he's got a lot of upper body strength. A real puncher.
BOOTHBY: Just keep your elbow low when you throw the right, and don't come in too straight. You'll be okay.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the scouting report? We don't know anything about this guy. I don't know who I'm up against!
BOOTHBY: You're up against yourself, that's all you've got to remember. And don't raise the elbow.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
CHAKOTAY: Boothby, where are you?
BOOTHBY: Still here, son. I'm not going anywhere.
(Kid Chaos turns around. His face is a field of stars. Chakotay is spoken to by other crew saying the appropriate words in short clips from the episode.)
EMH: You
JANEWAY: Are
PARIS: Far from where
EMH: You
GRANDFATHER: Call home.
EMH: You
JANEWAY: Are
GRANDFATHER: Lost.
EMH: Do you understand?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. We are far from home. We are lost.
JANEWAY: Our
GRANDFATHER: Home
SEVEN: Is here.
JANEWAY: Our
GRANDFATHER: Home
SEVEN: Is here.
JANEWAY: In Chaotic space.
SEVEN: Chaotic space.
EMH: Chaotic space.
BOOTHBY: Hang in there, son. Protect your head.
CHAKOTAY: I understand!
TUVOK: We are too
EMH: Alien
PARIS: For you
TUVOK: We are too
SEVEN: Strange  
PARIS: For you.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we're the ones who are too alien, too strange.
JANEWAY: If
EMH: You
BOOTHBY: Stay
JANEWAY: In Chaotic space
SEVEN: Chaotic space.
EMH: Chaotic space.
NEELIX: You'll be destroyed!
CHAKOTAY: We know that, but we can't navigate. Our sensors don't work in your space.
BOOTHBY: Twenty more seconds. Don't go down.
EMH: Your
KIM: Sensors must be.
EMH: Realigned.
CHAKOTAY: How can I?
EMH: Your mind
KIM: Must be
EMH: Realigned. Realigned. Realigned. Your mind
KIM: Must be.
EMH: Realigned.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
COMPUTER: End round one.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Get them out!
EMH: Let go, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I can't take any more punches!
EMH: They aren't hitting you!
CHAKOTAY: Duck, feint, clinch.
EMH: Stop fighting!
CHAKOTAY: I can't. They'll destroy me.
EMH: That's a risk you'll have to take.
CHAKOTAY: You take the damn risk.
EMH: They want you.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
EMH: Because you have the gene.
CHAKOTAY: The crazy gene.
EMH: Yes, the crazy gene. The aliens are trying to speak to you, and the only thing keeping you from understanding them is your own fear. Your fear of losing control, your fear of the unknown.
CHAKOTAY: The unknown. And I don't want to know.
EMH: But we have to know, or we're all going to die. Allow yourself to hear them for just a few moments. Do it for us.
CHAKOTAY: What will happen to me when they're done?
EMH: You'll be on Voyager, surrounded by friends.
CHAKOTAY: I can't understand them.
EMH: You will.
CHAKOTAY: They're talking too fast. Too many words.
EMH: Try to focus on one word at a time.
CHAKOTAY: Too many words.
EMH: Don't stop.
CHAKOTAY: I'm scared. I don't want to die. 
EMH: They won't hurt you. No one will hurt you. 
CHAKOTAY: Eighteenth gradient. Trimetric fracture.
EMH: Keep going.
CHAKOTAY: We have to modify our deflector. We have to induce a paralateral rentrillic trajectory.
EMH: How do we do that?
CHAKOTAY: I think I understand. It's making sense.
EMH: Where are you going?
CHAKOTAY: I can make the adjustments myself. I have to get to the bridge. I don't know how much longer I can keep it in my mind.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Commander.
JANEWAY: What happened?
CHAKOTAY: He's got a right uppercut almost knocked me out. Move over, Harry.
JANEWAY: Hang on, Ensign.
CHAKOTAY: They showed me how to get out.
EMH: He's hallucinating.
CHAKOTAY: Out of the way.
JANEWAY: Tell us what to do.
CHAKOTAY: I can't! It's too difficult to explain
KIM: I'm locking him out.
JANEWAY: No. Give up your post. 
TUVOK: He's recalibrating the deflector dish and routing it through the sensor array.
CHAKOTAY: It must be altered.
PARIS: Captain, the graviton shear is increasing.
TUVOK: I'm reading microfractures on the hull.
CHAKOTAY: Stay and we'll be destroyed. Activate the deflector. Maximum amplitude. Bring sensors online.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
KIM: I don't know how, but the sensors have found us a course.
CHAKOTAY: Maximum impulse, now!
PARIS: Captain, if that course is wrong, we could breach our hull.
JANEWAY: Engage.
TUVOK: We've re-entered normal space.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, resume a course to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
(Chakotay finally collapses.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: When I said you should take the next day or two off, I thought you'd want to stay in your quarters with a good book.
CHAKOTAY: Boxing helps me unwind.
JANEWAY: Well in that case, report for duty first thing in the morning.
CHAKOTAY: See you then. Computer, run Chakotay training programme fifteen beta.

[Holodeck - boxing programme]

BOOTHBY: Ah, come for a little more punishment?
CHAKOTAY: I thought I'd spar for a few rounds.
BOOTHBY: After that last bout? Did you talk to the Doc?
CHAKOTAY: I've got a clean bill of health.
BOOTHBY: That's good enough for me. Okay. I've been watching him fight. He falls in too much when he clinches, and he moves more to his right than he does to his left.
CHAKOTAY: I'll double up on the left jabs and see what happens.
BOOTHBY: You sure you're ready for this?
CHAKOTAY: I'm ready.
BOOTHBY: Okay.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.


S5 E20
Think Tank
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 31 March 1999

[Think Tank]
(A blue-skinned reptiloid enters nervously.)
SAOWIN: Hello? Hello? I'm here! Hello?
(He passes a vertical tank containing a giant sea-slug. Another being touches his shoulder.)
SAOWIN: I'm here to see Mister Kurros. Could you?
(This being is brown and makes unintelligible noises before walking away.)
SAOWIN: Could you tell me where to find Mister Kurros?
(A sleek machine beeps at him.)
SAOWIN: Wait!
(The place shudders slightly as a giant water-dweller moves in his tank beyond the wall. A small humanoid in a long gown speaks gently.)
KURROS: Do not mind Bevvox. He can be grouchy in the morning. Welcome aboard.
SAOWIN: Thank you.
KURROS: You seem tense.
SAOWIN: No.
KURROS: This is a time for celebration. The geostability of your world has been restored, your people saved. And all because you had the wisdom to accept our help.
SAOWIN: You accomplished in days what our scientists failed to achieve in decades.
KURROS: That it not to say it was not a challenge. Finding the precise harmonic for a planetary containment field did put my colleague here to the test.
(Kurros turns to the sea-slug.)
KURROS: But in the end, she prevailed.
SAOWIN: We owe you our lives.
KURROS: Solving problems is what we do. And seeing the look of gratitude in your eyes is almost reward enough. Almost.
SAOWIN: I have some bad news. Our bernicium mines were destroyed in the last series of quakes. The ore's buried under sixty gigatons of rock. We can't get to it. We hoped you'd accept this instead. A rubidium geode. Priceless. The only one ever found on our planet.
KURROS: It is rare, but hardly unique. And it is not what we agreed upon.
SAOWIN: I'm sorry, this is all we can offer you.
KURROS: You are lying. The mines collapsed, but before they did you transferred the ore to a shielded storage facility. Needless to say, we detected it.
SAOWIN: Please, we need the ore to repair our replicator systems. Without it, we'll be unable to feed our people.
KURROS: Get it to us now, or I will deactivate the containment field. Have you ever experienced a level twelve seismic event? Most violent. Quite unnerving.
SAOWIN: No! I'll have the ore transported at once. This, this was all a misunderstanding.
KURROS: Of course. It is already forgotten, my friend. Perhaps we will do business again someday.
SAOWIN: Yes.
KURROS: Show our friend back to his shuttle. I would hate for him to get lost in such an unfamiliar place.
(Saowin bows himself out, bumping into the sea-slug's tank.)
SAOWIN: Oh! Pardon me.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Yes?
SEVEN: Captain, long range scans have detected.
JANEWAY: One second. I've wasted two hours on this thing and I'm no closer to solving it.
(It is a large object with at least six hexagonal sides and a couple of squares. The hexagons have a honeycomb of lights on them. Like a complicated Rubik's cube, I suppose.)
SEVEN: You can thank Ensign Paris for introducing the artefact to the ship.
JANEWAY: He was behind the last ship wide craze, too. Yo-yos. Now it's Sheer Lunacy. Another hour and I'll go insane.
SEVEN: The solution is quite simple. If you align
JANEWAY: No, I want to figure this out myself. (But she only gets some of the lights to work.)
JANEWAY: You said something about long range scans?
SEVEN: They've revealed a planetoid with high concentrations of dilithium crystals.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look.

[Bridge]

KIM: Got it! False alarm.
(Kim is also working on a Sheer Lunacy.)
PARIS: Keep at it, Harry.
SEVEN: We're within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: Initial scans reveal substantial dilithium deposits beneath the planetoid's crust.
CHAKOTAY: Full sensor sweep.
KIM: The deposits are in the upper mantle, about sixty kilometres down.
TUVOK: We'll have to use phasers to cut through the
KIM: Hold on.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: Some kind of resonance wave emanating from the core. It's building fast, Captain.
JANEWAY: Right after we ran our scans? That can't be a coincidence. Back us off, Tom.
SEVEN: The planetoid is destabilising.
CHAKOTAY: Shields.
(The planetoid goes KaBOOM!)
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: We're trapped in a cloud of metreon gas. It's collapsed our warp field and knocked the impulse engines offline.
TUVOK: A heavily armed vessel just dropped out of warp off the port bow.
SEVEN: Captain, I recognise it. It's Hazari. Species four two two eight. Technologically advanced, extremely violent. They make excellent tactical drones.
KIM: What do they want with us?
SEVEN: The Hazari are hired to capture and deliver alien vessels.
PARIS: Bounty hunters.
SEVEN: Yes.
KIM: So who hired them?
CHAKOTAY: The Malon, the Devore? We've made our share of enemies here.
KIM: They're hailing.
(Lots of reptilian descendants in this area of space.)
Y'SEK [on viewscreen]: Surrender. No one need be hurt. My client would prefer your vessel intact.
JANEWAY: Who hired you?
Y'SEK [on viewscreen]: That's not your concern.
JANEWAY: I'm only asking because I'm curious how much they're paying? Maybe we can do better.
Y'SEK [on viewscreen]: Doubtful.
JANEWAY: We're far from defenceless. Why don't you save yourself some trouble.
Y'SEK [on viewscreen]: It's no trouble.
JANEWAY: Charge phaser banks to full power.
Y'SEK [on viewscreen]: Fire and you'll ignite the gas cloud. You'll be destroyed.
JANEWAY: You've left me no choice. I suggest you back off if you want to save your own ship. End transmission.
TUVOK: They are moving closer. They've locked on a tractor beam.
PARIS: Looks like they're calling your bluff, Captain. It was a bluff, wasn't it?
JANEWAY: Seven, do we still have warp power?
SEVEN: Yes, but it's useless while we remain in the gas cloud.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. Reroute every spare gigawatt to the shields. Prepare to fire phasers.
TUVOK: Our target?
JANEWAY: The gas cloud.
SEVEN: Do you believe the impact will throw us clear?
JANEWAY: If our shields hold.
PARIS: That's a big if.
JANEWAY: Go to warp one on my command. Fire.
(The gas cloud ignites, and Voyager rides the wave.)
TUVOK: Shields are holding. We're approaching the perimeter of the gas cloud.
PARIS: We're out.
JANEWAY: Warp speed.
TUVOK: No sign of pursuit.
JANEWAY: They weren't that heavily damaged. Why aren't they following us?

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: There's the reason they didn't come after us. They've got reinforcements throughout the sector.
KIM: Twenty three ships.
CHAKOTAY: And long range scans show more on the way.
KIM: Must be one hell of a reward.
TUVOK: The size of the bounty is immaterial. According to Seven of Nine, the Hazari pride themselves on honouring their agreements.
KIM: Great. Bounty hunters with a work ethic.
CHAKOTAY: There's got to be a way out, something they haven't anticipated. Download the data for the Captain. She wants to see what she can come up with on her own.

[Mess hall]

(Janeway has turned a table into her desk, with a computer.)
NEELIX: Should I have the Doctor prepare a hypospray?
JANEWAY: Excuse me?
NEELIX: So you can absorb the caffeine more directly. Save time.
JANEWAY: Point well taken. I'll make this my last cup.
NEELIX: How about trying a sounding board?
JANEWAY: Oh, you don't want that job.
NEELIX: Try me.
JANEWAY: It's these Hazari. They're like jackals, circling, feinting to draw us out while they cut off every route of escape.
NEELIX: You make them sound worse than the Borg.
JANEWAY: At least the Borg come straight at you. The Hazari wait, invite you to make mistakes. They've anticipated almost every move we can make, and the few things they seem to have missed, I'm convinced are traps. You still glad you volunteered?
NEELIX: We've faced tough odds before. You'll get us through. Goodnight.
JANEWAY: Goodnight.
(Neelix leaves. Janeway gets up and stretches.)
KURROS: There is nothing like a good problem to spark the synapses, is there? To open the mind to new possibilities, new ways of seeing things. Of course, one must always confront self- doubt and fear, but that is a small price to pay for the exhilaration of finding the perfect solution.
JANEWAY: Who are you and what do you want?
KURROS: You have a problem, Captain. I am the solution.
JANEWAY: Security to the Mess hall. Intruder alert
KURROS: I've deactivated your communications device, Captain, but do not worry. I am not an intruder. In fact, I am not really here.
JANEWAY: A hologram.
KURROS: Nothing so crude. An isomorphic projection.
(He sips her coffee.)
KURROS: You actually enjoy this?
JANEWAY: It's an acquired taste.
KURROS: It bears a resemblance to an Alkian confection we acquired several years ago.
JANEWAY: We?
KURROS: I am a member of a small group. Explorers, like you. But we seek out challenges, problems to be solved. Technological, biological, social, even artistic.
JANEWAY: A Think Tank.
KURROS: I like that. It's very apt. Our Think Tank is nearby. A modest vessel. I have come to offer our help with your Hazari paradox.
JANEWAY: Paradox?
KURROS: That is right. Is it an escape route or is it a trap? Do they know that you know that they know? It is the best kind of puzzle. Pure tactics, psychology.
JANEWAY: Something tells me your help comes with a price tag.
KURROS: Whatever your culture has to offer that is unique. Technology perhaps, or maybe something you would not even think to value. I would need a closer look at your database.
JANEWAY: And how do I know you aren't an Hazari trap? Maybe they're trying to lure us into an ambush, like before.
KURROS: You are wise to be suspicious, Captain. We have done some preliminary analysis on their manoeuvres. It does suggest some more likely ambushes. I've downloaded the data onto your computer.
JANEWAY: All right. You've got my attention. But I want to meet you face to face. And the rest of your crew.
KURROS: Naturally. Our coordinates are in here, too. But we have our own security concerns, Captain. Please, bring only one crewman and no scanning equipment.
JANEWAY: Fair enough.
KURROS: Then I look forward to meeting you in person.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Full stop.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like there's nothing here.
KIM: Maybe they're cloaked.
SEVEN: I'm reading a subspace flux.
(The Think Tank appears, looking like an oversized probe or small spacestation rather than a spaceship.)
TUVOK: The vessel's hull is composed of a neutronium-based alloy.
JANEWAY: Starfleet's theorised about such materials, but we've never come close to producing them.
SEVEN: Neither have the Borg. The Think Tank's technology is advanced.
JANEWAY: Well, you and I will have the chance to evaluate it first hand. Mister Kim, you have the transport coordinates.

[Think Tank]

(Fennim greets them with his unintelligible noises.)
SEVEN: The universal translator must be inoperative.
JANEWAY: Or his speech patterns are too complex to process.
(They look at the sea-slug's tank.)
JANEWAY: They must be studying it.
KURROS: Actually, she is studying you. Our resident expert on temporal physics. Perhaps the most gifted member of our group. She finds you interesting.
SEVEN: How do you communicate?
JANEWAY: One of my most gifted crewmen, Seven of Nine. 
KURROS: Bionetic implants, neural transceivers? A Borg? I've never seen one outside the Collective.
SEVEN: I am an individual now. You may address your comments to me.
KURROS: Forgive me. I am Kurros, and this is Fennim. In answer to your earlier question, this device allows the members of our group to communicate telepathically.
(A large hemispherical pale blue pulsing device set into a raised section of the floor.)
SEVEN: Impressive.
(The sound of a whale.)
KURROS: It sounds as if another member of our crew is anxious to meet you.
(They go to the viewport into Bevvox's tank.)
SEVEN: A bioplasmic lifeform.
KURROS: His name is Bevvox. He prefers a variable gravity environment.
JANEWAY: What's his specialty?
KURROS: At the moment exo-sociology and quantum mechanics, but his interests vary from time to time. Bevvox founded our group more than one hundred years ago, after wandering the galaxy on his own for a few millennia.
SEVEN: How old is this creature?
KURROS: If you please, that is a sensitive topic with him. And there is one other individual who rounds out our group.
(The mechanoid.)
SEVEN: An artificial intelligence.
KURROS: The mind of mathematician and the soul of an artist. I'm afraid he'd much rather be modelling a fractal sculpture than analysing the data of our latest astronomical scan. And now you have met us all. A small group of minds, but we have helped hundreds of clients. We turned the tide in the war between the Bara Plenum and the Motali Empire. Re-ignited the red giants of the Zai Cluster. Just recently, we found a cure for the Vidiian phage.
JANEWAY: The Vidiians?
KURROS: You would hardly recognise them now. Just last month we helped retrieve a Lyridian child's runaway pet. A subspace mesomorph, I might add. We had to invent a whole new scanning technology just to find it.
JANEWAY: And what did you ask for as compensation?
KURROS: One of their transgalactic star charts. The best map of the known galaxy ever created. When we helped the citizens of Rivos Five resist the Borg, all we asked for was the recipe for their famous zoth-nut soup. Care for a taste?
SEVEN: Another time, perhaps.
JANEWAY: Tell me, is there any job you won't do?
KURROS: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: Well, we have a non-interference protocol, our Prime Directive. I'm curious where you draw the line.
KURROS: As you know, there is no shortage of conflict in what you call the Delta Quadrant. Many of our clients are at war. To be frank, we will assist in the neutralisation of fleets, starbases, even planets. But we will not participate in the decimation of an entire species, nor will we design weapons of mass destruction. My colleague here wishes to speak to Seven of Nine about her bionetic technology. May he interface with you?
(Seven steps up to the mechanoid.)
SEVEN: I am in direct telepathic communication with this individual. It is requesting information about integrating organic components into its technology.
JANEWAY: Feel free to give him some pointers.
(There is a short pause.)
SEVEN: You're welcome.
KURROS: To business, Captain. I believe we can solve the Hazari paradox without firing a single weapon.
JANEWAY: That's just what I'm looking for.
KURROS: Then there is only the matter of payment.
(Janeway hands over a PADD.)
JANEWAY: Voyager's schematics and an overview of its database. Specify what you want and I'll see what I can do. I recommend the replicators. They're very popular this year.
KURROS: I'll contact you with our requests.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I take it First Contact was a success?
JANEWAY: I have some qualms about their morality, but I believe they can help us.
SEVEN: It was an interesting experience.
CHAKOTAY: Glad to hear it. We don't have much good news of our own. Every escape route we've considered is clearly a trap, and more Hazari ships keep joining the search.
JANEWAY: Then we have no choice. We'll put our own plans on hold and see what the Think Tank comes up with.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: You have a visitor. Mister Kurros has returned in isomorphic form.
JANEWAY: Send him in. Welcome back.
KURROS: Captain, we have compiled a short list of items we would like. It was not easy. Voyager has a great deal to offer.
JANEWAY: Quantum slipstream technology. I should warn you. We never got that to work reliably.
KURROS: It is still intriguing, theoretically.
JANEWAY: Neelix's recipe for Chadre'kab?
KURROS: Yes.
JANEWAY: An ancient Olmec figurine. I guess Commander Chakotay can be persuaded to part with it.
KURROS: I am pleased to hear that.
JANEWAY: You can't be serious.
KURROS: I realise the next item may seem unorthodox, but I believe it can be beneficial to both of us.
JANEWAY: You never mentioned anything about bartering my crew members.
KURROS: She will have an extraordinary opportunity to explore the galaxy as one of us.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid the answer is no.
KURROS: I understand your feelings, Captain, but have you thought to ask Seven of Nine herself?
(So she does.)
SEVEN: A curious proposition.
JANEWAY: To say the least.
SEVEN: How do you wish to proceed?
JANEWAY: I want your opinion.
SEVEN: They are offering us the assistance we require, I am the payment they require. The solution is obvious.
JANEWAY: This isn't a puzzle, Seven. There is no solution. What's at issue here is your future.
SEVEN: The issue is Voyager's survival.
JANEWAY: Sit. Please. While I still question this Think Tank's way of doing things, there is a genuine opportunity for exploration. It could be the chance of a lifetime.
SEVEN: You're saying I should go?
JANEWAY: I don't want you to go, but it's not my right to tell you what to do. Until now, I've kept a close eye on your progress, helped you with decisions but, I think you've learned enough as an individual to make this decision yourself. Would you like to join them?
SEVEN: I am intrigued. They are an unusual Collective with a compelling mission. But I require more data.
JANEWAY: That's why I want you to talk to Kurros yourself. See if he can answer your questions.
SEVEN: Captain, I appreciate your giving me this choice.
JANEWAY: You've earned it. And remember, if you do choose to go, make sure it's what you want, not what you think is best for Voyager. We're getting out of this, with or without the Think Tank's help.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Why me?
KURROS: I admire your humility. The collective knowledge of the Borg contained within a single mind. When we factor in your innate intelligence and the enhancements afforded you by your bionetic implants, we concluded you are an ideal candidate. The first we have recruited in seventeen years.
SEVEN: When did you arrive at this assessment?
KURROS: During your interview.
SEVEN: My dialogue with the artificial intelligence.
KURROS: It was the most efficient way to evaluate your abilities. I am sure you can appreciate that.
SEVEN: How much do you know about me?
KURROS: Enough to know that you are tapping into only a fraction of your potential as a member of Voyager's crew. You were adjusting the deflector array to improve shield harmonics. Do you find such duties challenging?
SEVEN: No.
KURROS: Without problems that test the limits of your abilities, you cannot expand them. Perfection will always be beyond your reach. Seven, you could become one of the greatest intellects in the galaxy, but that will not happen here among these limited lifeforms.
SEVEN: The crew of Voyager has accepted me, integrated me into their Collective.
KURROS: They are your family. It was hard for me to leave my family, too. And I was only a child. Not much older than you when you were first assimilated.
SEVEN: Why did you leave?
KURROS: To help them and my world solve a cataclysmic problem.
SEVEN: The Think Tank requested you as payment.
KURROS: I did not realise it at first. I was too young. But they gave me a remarkable opportunity, and now I am offering the same to you.
SEVEN: Your group can assist many Collectives, and yet you often use that ability as a means of coercion to obtain what you want. How many have suffered because they were unwilling to agree to your conditions?
KURROS: We have a singular mission, to perfect our knowledge. Perfection sometimes necessitates selfishness. It is your life. Not Voyager's, not Captain Janeway's or anyone else's. It is up to you to achieve the goals you have set for yourself.
SEVEN: I agree, but I can do that here.
KURROS: Please, take more time to think about this. We will remain nearby in case you change your mind.
SEVEN: I doubt that will happen.
TUVOK [OC]: Seven of Nine, report to the bridge.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
KURROS: May I accompany you?
SEVEN: As you wish.

[Bridge]

KURROS: Do you have a problem, Captain?
JANEWAY: Two Hazari ships are approaching.  
SEVEN: I have declined their offer.
KURROS: Our first offer.
JANEWAY: Glad you're sticking around. Take your station.
TUVOK: They are dropping out of warp, flanking our position.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY: Which one fired?
TUVOK: The ship to starboard. Shields down to sixty percent.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Target their weapons systems and return fire.
TUVOK: Their shields are holding.
PARIS: I can't get away. They're right on top of us.
KIM: Hull integrity's been compromised on decks seven and twelve.
KURROS: Captain, when the Hazari strike in pairs, one ship always remains behind to reinforce the shields of the attacking vessel.
JANEWAY: So we should target the support ship. How much is this tip going to cost me?
KURROS: This one is free.
JANEWAY: I'll take it. Tuvok.
TUVOK: Retargeting. Firing photon torpedoes. They are disengaging.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum warp. Thanks for the help.
KURROS: Consider it a friendly gesture of goodwill in the hopes that Seven will change her mind.
SEVEN: I have not.
KURROS: You are making a fatal mistake. We have already analysed hundreds of scenarios. Voyager will not survive without our help.
JANEWAY: Your scenarios, not mine.
KURROS: Your confidence is unfounded, Captain. Reconsider. Order Seven of Nine to join us.
JANEWAY: We have an old expression, Kurros. Don't call us, we'll call you. Remodulate the shields to a phase variance frequency.
(Kurros disappears.)
TUVOK: His ship is vanishing from sensors. It's being absorbed into subspace.
CHAKOTAY: I get the distinct feeling they won't take no for an answer.
JANEWAY: Same here. Looks like we're facing two threats now. The Hazari and our would-be saviours.

[Think Tank]

KURROS: Our offer was denied. How shall we proceed?
FENNIM: We are already proceeding.
ALIEN IN TANK: Our offer was refused. We must let the scenario continue.
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: Our calculations indicate a ninety six percent chance the Borg will still be ours.
KURROS: Then it is decided. We will wait and let our problem solve itself.

[Hazari vessel]

(There is wreckage orbiting a planet. We can see the deflector array.)
Y'SEK: Duranium hull fragments, a thruster assembly, human organic residue. We were supposed to disable their ship, not destroy it.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: They've entered the debris field.
JANEWAY: Detonate the spatial charges.
(The Hazari vessel gets bounced around.)
TUVOK: Their vessel has taken heavy damage. Shields and weapons are offline.
JANEWAY: Move us into position. Lock on a tractor beam and pull them into the shuttlebay.
PARIS: We're in transporter range.
KIM: I've got a lock. Two lifeforms.
JANEWAY: Energise.

[Hazari vessel]

JANEWAY: Any luck?
CHAKOTAY: I'm still trying to access their primary database.
JANEWAY: Let me guess. They're the strong but silent types.
TUVOK: Very silent.
CHAKOTAY: Did you try a mind meld?
TUVOK: Without success. They are unusually resistant.
JANEWAY: Well, hold off on the torture till we see what we can dig up here.
CHAKOTAY: I've found something. A series of encoded transmissions.
JANEWAY: They've been discussing Voyager. Our coordinates, our defences.
TUVOK: Whoever hired the Hazari know a lot about us.
JANEWAY: Check these sensor logs. See if they had any visitors recently.
CHAKOTAY: I've got some bioreadings, but they're pretty scrambled.
TUVOK: If they are bioreadings, perhaps the Doctor can unscramble them.
JANEWAY: Tell him to give it a try.

[Medical lab]

EMH: I've created a forensic reconstruction from the bioreadings, using the holoemitters. Brace yourselves.
JANEWAY: Malon. Huh, they must really hold a grudge. We haven't run into them for months. I'm sorry, Doctor, something doesn't feel right.
TUVOK: The Malon are economically motivated.
JANEWAY: And there's no profit in revenge. Take a look at this. Isomorphic signatures embedded in the bioreadings. This was no Malon, it was only a projection.
EMH: You mean that's a hologram of a hologram?
TUVOK: In a manner of speaking. I believe I can restore the original biosignal parameters. Brace yourself.
(It is Kurros.)
JANEWAY: Well, it appears our Hazari paradox is more complex than we thought.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: I believe we're both being manipulated by the same person. Recognise him?
(She holds up a PADD.)
Y'SEK: No.
JANEWAY: His name is Kurros, The Malon you met with was nothing more than a projection.
Y'SEK: My sensors would have detected a hologram.
JANEWAY: Not this one. Kurros is a member of a Think Tank. They solve problems for a price. Oh, you have heard of them.
Y'SEK: They're notorious in this sector. They've made quite a few enemies.
JANEWAY: Enemies who might be willing to pay a hell of a bounty.
Y'SEK: Their technology is very advanced. It makes them difficult to track.
JANEWAY: Not if we work together. You're the best hunters in the quadrant and we have the perfect lure. All we have to do now is out-think the Think Tank.

[Mess hall]

(Instead of in the briefing room, the brain-storming session is being held here with plenty of coffee.)
JANEWAY: We've got a puzzle and we're not leaving this room until we solve it. The Think Tank is out there somewhere, hiding in subspace. How do we find them? And even if we can, their ship's hull is neutronium-based alloy, impervious to our weapons. How do we capture them?
KIM: What if we send out a multispatial probe?
TORRES: It would take weeks of scanning to find them.
Y'SEK: Weeks? We're not willing to wait that long.
TUVOK: We could use subspatial charges to force them into the open.
CHAKOTAY: Where do we target the charges? We've still got to find them first.
JANEWAY: Maybe we're going about this the wrong way. A direct assault seems unlikely to succeed. Pure tactics, psychology. That's how they solve problems. That's what we have to do. They've created this paradox to manipulate us into giving them Seven of Nine. How do we manipulate them? Think.
(The group breaks into smaller units to discuss ideas. Later -)
NEELIX: I thought we were onto something with B'Elanna's plan
TORRES: Forget it. I was wrong.
PARIS: Let him talk.
EMH: We're talking in circles.
Y'SEK: Enough! Three hours, no progress. I should have contacted my ships by now.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can't out-think them.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: We have to assume they've planned for every contingency, including anything we could come up with to undermine their plan. This thing has been driving me crazy. You said you knew the solution. Prove it.
(Janeway hands the Sheer Lunacy to Seven, who presses a few buttons and all the lights go out. She has solved it.)
JANEWAY: Seven, how'd you do that?
SEVEN: I scanned the device. Its mechanism operates on a simple fractal regression.
PARIS: You scanned it? That's cheating.
SEVEN: Cheating is often more efficient.
JANEWAY: If you can't solve a puzzle, cheat. If you can't out-think a Think Tank, don't try.
NEELIX: Are you suggesting we give up?
JANEWAY: Not at all. When you were in contact with the artificial intelligence, you were linked through their internal communications array.
SEVEN: Yes, for several seconds.
JANEWAY: If you were to link with them again, we might be able to disrupt those systems. If they can't communicate, they can't function as a Think Tank. They'd be vulnerable.
EMH: Back to square one. How do we find them?
JANEWAY: Simple. We give them what they want. You're going to join their group willingly.
Y'SEK: They won't believe her.
JANEWAY: We'll have to make them believe. Pull up a chair. We've got some more work to do.

[Think Tank]

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: An Hazari vessel is sending hails into subspace. It's trying to contact us.
KURROS: Put them through.

[Hazari vessel]

HAZARI: They're responding.
KURROS [on monitor]: Hazari vessel, we have received your hails. Can we be of assistance?
Y'SEK: You deceived us.
KURROS [on monitor]: I do not believe we have met.
Y'SEK: Stop the pretence. You wanted us to deliver Voyager. Very well. But only if you triple our bounty.
KURROS [on monitor]: My friend, regardless of the circumstances, we have a contract.
Y'SEK: Pay us, or we let Voyager go.
KURROS [on monitor]: All right, we will triple the bounty. But you must deliver them to us now.
Y'SEK: Agreed. We'll contact the rest of our ships. We'll seize Voyager as planned.

[Bridge]

(Voyager is running from a sustained attack.)
TUVOK: Shields down to thirty percent.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Our phasers aren't penetrating their shields.
KIM: That last volley took out our shield generators and phaser banks.
TUVOK: Life support's failing, all decks.
KURROS: Let us be honest, Captain. Things do not seem to be going your way.
JANEWAY: Don't count us out just yet.
KURROS: I admit you have been clever. You uncovered our subterfuge, but you failed to factor in all the variables. The greed of the Hazari, for example.
JANEWAY: Photon torpedoes?
TUVOK: Aft launchers are still online.
JANEWAY: Target a full spread at the lead Hazari ship.
KURROS: A few torpedoes will not alter the outcome. If you do not convince Seven of Nine to join us now, the destruction of your ship is ninety nine point eight percent certain.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit. It's been disabled.  
KURROS: Clinging to that point two percentage? Hazari reinforcements should be here any minute.
PARIS: He's right. Sensors just picked up a half dozen ships on an intercept course.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I'm detecting an unauthorised shuttle launch. It's Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: What the hell is she doing?
KURROS: I believe she's saving your ship.
KIM: She's not answering hails. Her shuttle's being pulled into subspace. She's gone.
KURROS: Have a safe journey home, Captain.

[Think Tank]

KURROS: Seven of Nine, welcome.
SEVEN: Your hospitality is irrelevant. I am here because you left me no choice.
KURROS: You gave into your human instincts to save your crew, as we knew you would. Just another factor in our equation.
SEVEN: If Voyager is destroyed, I will not cooperate.
KURROS: Do not worry. The solution to the Hazari paradox is quite simple.

[Hazari vessel]

KURROS [on monitor]: We have what we want. Call off your attack.
Y'SEK: Not until we've been compensated.
KURROS [on monitor]: Fine, but first order your other vessels to stand down.
Y'SEK: Now, or we'll destroy Voyager.

[Think Tank]

KURROS: Why is he in such a hurry?
SEVEN: Comply.
KURROS: If we decloak, we would be vulnerable. The Hazari could make quite a bounty on us. Far more than we are paying them.
SEVEN: Their technology is inferior to yours. They would never attack you directly.
KURROS: I think this is a trap, a new paradox your Captain has created for us. If we call their bluff, the Hazari might destroy Voyager, and we would lose you. If we reveal ourselves, we could be destroyed.
SEVEN: You told me, without problems to test the limits of your ability, you can never expand them.
KURROS: There is one very simple way to narrow the odds. We simply link you to our communications system, allow our artificial intelligence to probe your mind as it did before, and Captain Janeway's plans will be revealed, like a jewel in a bed of fog.

[Medical lab]

(Cortical implant monitor 222 is on the wall monitor.)
EMH: Sickbay to bridge. Seven's neural transceiver has been activated.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Do it.
TUVOK: I'm transmitting the carrier wave.

[Think Tank]

(Energy plays around the implant's visible part over Seven's eyebrow.)
KURROS: Voyager is sending an interference signal into our systems using her cortical implants as a relay. Disconnect the link.
(Fennim says something.)
KURROS: Disconnect the link.
SEVEN: They can't understand you.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Voyager to Hazari vessels. Their systems are down. Fire the spatial charges.

[Think Tank]

(The Think Tank rocks.)
SEVEN: We seem to be experiencing some turbulence.
KURROS: Primitive spatial charges. I will have the dome back online before they can do any damage.
(An alarm sounds.)
KURROS: We're being pulled out of subspace.

[Bridge]

KIM: I've got a lock on Seven.
JANEWAY: Initiate transport.
(Seven is beamed directly to the bridge.)
TUVOK: The Hazari vessels are converging on the Think Tank.
JANEWAY: Tom.
PARIS: Setting a course.
KURROS: I urge you to reconsider, Captain.
JANEWAY: A good guest knows when he's outstayed his welcome.
KURROS: We can still negotiate a peaceful solution. Do not destroy my faith in diplomacy.
JANEWAY: Your diplomacy could use some polishing.
KURROS: You know you will never be satisfied here among these people. Is this what you really want?
SEVEN: Acquiring knowledge is a worthy objective, but its pursuit has obviously not elevated you.
(Kurros' isomorphic projection flickers.)
JANEWAY: Looks like your ship's having difficulties.
KURROS: A minor problem.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sure you'll find a solution. Just give it some thought.
(Kurros disappears. Voyager leaves the Hazari fleet to continue its bombardment of the Think Tank.)


S5 E21
Juggernaut
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 26 April 1999

[Malon Freighter control room]
(Pelk is playing with a model freighter.)
PELK: Zeeesh. Alert, alert, decompression on platform six eight four. Brace for hull rupture. Thrusters are down. We're going to crash! Ahhh. Hey, what do you think? Look at the detail on the dorsal plating.
FESEK: Impressive. Are you sure you're willing to part with it?
PELK: I just hope your boy enjoys it as much as I do.
FESEK: I'm certain he will, if we make it home in time for his birthday.
PELK: We'll make it.
FESEK: If you and Savar had a child of your own, you'd have an excuse to play with toys more often.
(Rumble, alarm.)
PELK: I'm detecting a fluctuation in tank four. There's a full scale rupture in progress.
FESEK: Isolate the deck. Activate the emergency containment field.
PELK: The emergency systems are offline.
FESEK: Backup controls are down too. Eject the tank.
PELK: Here? There's an inhabited system.
FESEK: We have no choice!
PELK: The ejection ports aren't responding.
FESEK: Impossible.
DREMK: There's another rupture forming in tank six.
FESEK: We'll have to send somebody down there to seal off the tanks manually. Contact the theta core.
PELK: Communications are down.
FESEK: Get down to the injector pod and seal those tanks.
DREMK: I didn't sign up for core labour.
FESEK: I'm giving you an order.
DREMK: I'll be contaminated.
FESEK: Now!

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok is giving a lesson in meditation.)
TUVOK: The flame, like emotion, is a primitive force. Left unchecked, it's chaotic, destructive. But if controlled it can be a powerful tool. The lamp controls the flame, as you must learn to control your emotions.
TORRES: I lost my temper. No big deal.
TUVOK: You destroyed the Doctor's holographic camera.
TORRES: I told him three times to leave Engineering, but he kept buzzing around snapping pictures for some photo essay.
TUVOK: A day in the life of the warp core.
TORRES: I apologised, and I replicated him a new camera.
TUVOK: You have a long history of emotional volatility. The point of this exercise is not to atone for past transgressions, but to prevent future ones.
TORRES: You can't order someone to meditate.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay thinks otherwise.
(Torres kneels opposite Tuvok.)
TORRES: Are my eyes supposed to be open or closed for this part.
TUVOK: Whichever allows you to focus your mind.
(She closes them.)
TUVOK: Envision the flame burning within you.
(Torres laughs.)
TORRES: Sorry.
TUVOK: The flame grows hotter. A point of white light. Follow it backward through the years to a time when you were younger, a child. Is there something amusing, Lieutenant?
TORRES: I'm sorry, an image just flashed through my mind. You as a child, those pointy little ears. You must have been cute.
TUVOK: Indeed. Please follow my instructions or we'll discontinue this exercise.
TORRES: Right. Me, childhood. How old?
TUVOK: Your earliest memories. Try to recall a time when you experienced uncontrollable anger.
TORRES: Daniel Byrd.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon?
TORRES: He was one of my classmates in grammar school. He was always terrorising me. He used to point at my cranial ridges and tease me about being half Klingon. He called me Miss Turtlehead.
TUVOK: That angered you.
TORRES: Of course, it did. So I attacked him once, during recess, on the gyro-swing. I disengaged the centrifugal governor. He was spinning so fast, he almost flew apart. Then I yanked him off the swing and started pounding his little face! If Miss Malvin hadn't showed up, I probably would have
TUVOK: Describe the anger you felt at that moment.
TORRES: I, I wanted to hurt him. To take revenge for all the humiliation he caused me.
TUVOK: Your anger was a source of strength. It protected you, gave you courage.
TORRES: I suppose it did.
TUVOK: And when the Doctor tried to take a holo-photograph of you?
TORRES: I was annoyed. He kept getting in the way.
TUVOK: The rage within you runs deep. It's been with you for many years.
TORRES: I'm not a Vulcan. I'll survive.
TUVOK: Whatever you say, Miss Turtlehead.
TORRES: What did you say!
TUVOK: You're easily provoked. You must learn to master your emotions.
TORRES: I've had enough mastery for one day. School's out.

[Bridge]

PARIS: So, how'd it go with B'Elanna today?
TUVOK: Our meditation sessions are confidential.
PARIS: No, I'm not asking for sordid details. I just want to know if you think you can help her.
TUVOK: Her training will be a challenge for both of us.
PARIS: Take it from me, getting B'Elanna to control her temper is like convincing a Ferengi to leave his estate to charity.
KIM: Captain, we're receiving an automated distress call.
JANEWAY: Origin?
KIM: Coordinates one twenty one by two six eight. Range, two billion kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Who's sending it?
KIM: I can't tell.
JANEWAY: Let them know help's on the way. Set a course, Mister Paris.
(Later, they arrive at the coordinates.)
TUVOK: Thirty seven escape pods.
PARIS: They're contaminated with theta radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Malon?
JANEWAY: Possibly. Lifesigns?
KIM: Two, but they're erratic.
JANEWAY: Beam them to Sickbay. Initiate bio-hazard containment procedures.
TUVOK: Theta radiation has affected a radius of six hundred million kilometres.
JANEWAY: Source?
TUVOK: A Malon freighter travelling at high impulse. It appears to be abandoned.

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: I thought we'd seen the last of the Malon.
JANEWAY: I guess they're looking for new places to dump their toxic waste.
EMH: Do we know what happened to their ship? Were they attacked?
JANEWAY: I'm just as curious as you are. Can you revive either of them? I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway.
FESEK: Fesek. Controller Fesek. Where am I?
JANEWAY: You're on my vessel. We responded to your distress call.
FESEK: My ship?
JANEWAY: It's heavily damaged.
FESEK: Where?
TUVOK: Three million kilometres from here.
FESEK: That's too close. We've got to get further away.
JANEWAY: Calm down, calm down. Tell me what's wrong with your ship. Why did you abandon it?
FESEK: We were on a waste export mission.
TUVOK: Dumping theta radiation.
FESEK: Two of the theta tanks ruptured. Systems malfunctioned one by one, communications, navigation, propulsion. We had no choice. Radiation was venting from every port. Over sixty crewmen died within minutes. It was chaos. We stumbled through the gas to get to the escape pods. Only a few of us made it. Where are the others?
JANEWAY: The two of you were the only ones we found alive.
FESEK: Listen to me very carefully. The fact that we're still here means the ship hasn't exploded, yet. When it does, over four trillion isotons of antimatter waste is going to ignite. Everything within three light years will be destroyed.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Put at least five light years between us and the Malon freighter.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Quickly.
CHAKOTAY: You heard her, Tom.
JANEWAY [OC]: Send out a sector wide alert.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Warn any other ships in the vicinity to

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Evacuate immediately.
PARIS: Our warp field just collapsed.
KIM :All this theta radiation. It's disrupting subspace.
CHAKOTAY: Can you reinitialise the field?
TORRES: Negative.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Tuvok. Without warp drive there's no chance we'll clear the blast radius.
TUVOK: Agreed.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, set a course for the freighter. Full impulse.
PARIS [OC]: Aye, Captain.
FESEK: What?
JANEWAY: If we can't outrun your ship, maybe we can disable it.
FESEK: Every deck has been contaminated. Anyone who goes on board will liquefy within minutes.
JANEWAY: We'll find a way.
FESEK: We? I'm not going anywhere near that vessel.
JANEWAY: You can either stay and help us or I'll send you back to your escape pod. Your choice. Clean them up, Doctor. I need them on the bridge.

[Bridge]

(They catch up with the freighter.)
JANEWAY: How long until those storage tanks explode?
TORRES: Approximately six hours.
JANEWAY: Can we get an away team on board?
TUVOK: The freighter's hull is intact. Life support appears to be operational. However, thirty three of forty two decks are flooded with high levels of theta radiation.
FESEK: Including the control room, which is where we'd have to go to reestablish containment. As I told you.
TORRES: We could beam on to one of the lower levels where there's less radiation, and vent the contaminated sections one by one.
CHAKOTAY: Clear a path to the control room.
FESEK: I appreciate what you're trying to do, but if what you're considering were possible, we'd have tried it before we abandoned the ship. We have years of experience aboard freighters of this gradient.
TORRES: Your experience is what got us into this mess in the first place.
JANEWAY: That's enough, Lieutenant.
FESEK: Maybe there's another way.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
FESEK: Four hours from here there's a nebula that could protect us from the blast. We could alter course, wait there until after the explosion.
JANEWAY: There are at least three other ships in the sector. What about them?
FESEK: I don't see what we can do.
TORRES: So hundreds of people become contaminated because you're not willing to clean up your garbage.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant. Assemble an away team. We're going over there.
PELK: Wait! Tell them about the Vihaar.
JANEWAY: What's he talking about?
FESEK: Nothing. It's a myth.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of myth?
FESEK: It's an old story shared among freighter crews. Some of them say they've seen creatures in the theta storage tanks.
TORRES: Creatures?
FESEK: Created by radiogenic waste. According to the legend, they are poisonous monsters that wreak havoc aboard Malon ships. It's a common belief among our more superstitious recruits.
PELK: I never believed it myself, but during the evacuation some of the crew people saw something. A form.
FESEK: Hallucinations are one of the first symptoms of theta poisoning. You know that.
PELK: Maybe. Then how do you explain what happened? We checked every system.
TORRES: You'd say anything to get out of going back to that freighter.
PELK: If you'd been there, you'd be afraid to go back, too.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: This chamber seems to be the least affected by radiation. We'll beam in there.
PELK: That's fifteen decks below the control room.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to work our way up.
FESEK: The pressurisation systems, they're offline. How will we vent the gas?
NEELIX: There are two main airlocks on each deck. We'll open them as we go. Perform a series of controlled decompressions.
PELK: What's to stop us from being vented?
NEELIX: Forcefields. I spent six years aboard a Talaxian garbage scow. I know a few things about waste management.
PELK: Even low levels of theta radiation can be lethal.
CHAKOTAY: Our Doctor's developed an inoculation. It'll temporarily prevent our cells from absorbing the radiation.
FESEK: How long will it last?
CHAKOTAY: Two, three hours.
PELK: Half of the doors and bulkheads are fused. The ascenders are offline. It could take us twice as long as that to reach the control room.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll have to work quickly. We'll take phasers to cut through any obstacles.
FESEK: I've ordered my men to do a lot of risky things, but nothing as foolish as this.
TORRES: More foolish than towing around a trillion isotons of toxic waste?
FESEK: We take every precaution to keep it contained.
TORRES: Until you dump it in someone's back yard.
FESEK: Is your crew always so diplomatic?
CHAKOTAY: Your concerns are noted. Get them inoculated. We'll meet you in Transporter room one.
(Neelix and the Malons leave.)
CHAKOTAY: We're trying to avoid explosions, remember?
TORRES: Oh! Not another lecture about my emotions.
CHAKOTAY: No, a lecture about how to treat guests aboard this ship.
TORRES: Guests? Chakotay, these people are the scourge of the quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Agreed, but right now they're our only hope of repairing that freighter, so I suggest you make friends.
TORRES: Diplomacy. Janeway's answer to everything.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't the Captain talking, it's me, and I'm giving you an order. Keep your temper in check. Understood? Understood?
TORRES: Yeah.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't hear you.
TORRES: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, I need your expertise on this mission, not your bad mood.
TORRES: I'll see what I can do.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix is making a thick soup. He has to force himself to taste it.)
CHAKOTAY: Ready, Neelix?
NEELIX: Ah, not quite. Do we still have a minute? It's just it's not quite strong enough yet. Would you mind passing me that little dish?
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, I admire your dedication, but the crew can figure out lunch on their own.
NEELIX: Lunch, and dinner, and a midnight snack have all been taken care of. This is for me. It's a Talaxian theta radiation remedy. Crushed rama leaf and katyllian clove. It helps fortify the cellular membranes.
CHAKOTAY: I think the Doctor's inoculation might be a better way to go.
NEELIX: Every little bit helps. Oh, by the way, thank you.
CHAKOTAY: For what?
NEELIX: For sending me on such an important mission. Not that my duties in the mess hall aren't challenging.
CHAKOTAY: It was an easy choice. You were the best man for the job.
NEELIX: Well, our scow once ran smack into a theta radiation field. Knocked the propulsion out. We had no choice but to sit there. We were barely alive when they found us. If it hadn't been for this, nobody would have survived.
(He forces himself to take another mouthful.)
NEELIX: Once you get past the choking reflex it's really not so bad. Want to try some?
CHAKOTAY: I'll take my chances.
KIM [OC]: Transporter room one to Commander Chakotay. We're ready to proceed.
CHAKOTAY: On our way.

[Corridor]

PARIS: B'Elanna. Aren't you forgetting something?
TORRES: I don't think so.
PARIS: A goodbye would be nice. So long, see you soon, something along those lines.
TORRES: I didn't want to risk it.
PARIS: Risk what?
TORRES: Starting an argument.
PARIS: Argument? Us? So, I hear it's been a short fuse kind of day.
TORRES: About this long.
PARIS: Nothing you can't handle.
TORRES: If you think so.
PARIS: I know so.
TORRES: I suppose it's always going to be like this.
PARIS: Like what?
TORRES: Me against the galaxy.
PARIS: Well, the galaxy doesn't stand a chance. Now, promise me that you're going to be careful over there. No stopping to have fun.
TORRES: Fun? On a Malon freighter?
(He kisses her.)
PARIS: See you soon.

[Malon Freighter corridor]

(They cough regularly.)
NEELIX: Well, it's nothing a fresh coat of paint wouldn't brighten up.
FESEK: This way.
TORRES: Theta radiation density, twenty million EV per cubic metre. Structural integrity's holding. Wish I could say the same for my lungs.
(Bang!)
NEELIX: What was that?
CHAKOTAY: This corridor's filled with methogenic particles, highly charged.
(Another Bang!)
TORRES: Something's causing an electrostatic cascade. Our scanning signals are igniting the particles. It's the tricorders!
CHAKOTAY: Take cover.
(Torres removes her smouldering jacket.)
CHAKOTAY: No more tricorders.
(They get to a bulkhead.)
PELK: Control mechanisms are down. We're going to have to open the airlocks manually.
FESEK: Wait here. We'll take care of it.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, go with him.
FESEK: We can do this ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: I'd prefer to keep an eye on your progress.
FESEK: You're on my freighter. I'm in charge here.
CHAKOTAY: You abandoned ship, remember? You take your orders from me.
FESEK: We'll have to crawl into an injector port. It's only big enough for two people.
CHAKOTAY: Pelk, you stay with us.
TORRES: Shall we?

[Injector port]

(They crawl through a dirty Jefferies tube.)
TORRES: How can you stand to work in these conditions?
FESEK: You think we're animals, don't you?
TORRES: You said it, not me.
FESEK: I'm a waste controller half the year. Do you know what I do the rest of the time? I'm a sculptor.
TORRES: What's your point?
FESEK: Every year I give up work I love to expose myself to radiation that will probably cut my life in half.
TORRES: Then why do it?
FESEK: Have you ever been to Malon Prime? It's a remarkable place. It's one of the most beautiful worlds you'll ever see. Our planet would choke with industrial wastes if it weren't for the sacrifices of people like me.
TORRES: How many worlds are you willing to contaminate to keep your own home so tidy?
FESEK: Do you have any idea of the trouble we go to, to locate isolated areas? Ah, manual actuators. I'll release them, you monitor the pressure variance.
TORRES: Right.
FESEK: Do you have any children?
TORRES: No.
FESEK: I have a son. He's seven years old. He wants to be a waste controller when he grows up.
TORRES: You must be very proud.
FESEK: Ready.
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay. Stand by for the decompression sequence.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged.
(Fesek throws the contacts.)
TORRES: It didn't work.
FESEK: There's something jamming the airlock controls.

[Malon Freighter corridor]

TORRES [OC]: Torres to Chakotay. We've got a problem. The actuators aren't working. Somebody's going to have to go up there and take a look.
NEELIX: Wait. That deck is still contaminated.
PELK: I'll go. I've been exposed to worse.
NEELIX: Wait.
(Neelix gives Pelk another injection.)
NEELIX: One for the road.
PELK: It's probably just the decouplers. They're always getting encrusted with oxides.
(We are treated to a point of view with a different coloured filter on the scene, and heavy breathing.) 
PELK: Who's there?
(Pelk backs away, then something grabs him.)
PELK: Help! Help! Help!
(Chakotay and Neelix run to him.)
PELK: I saw it. I saw it.
CHAKOTAY: What?
PELK: The creature.
NEELIX: Give me twenty cc's of anesthezine.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Transporter status.
KIM [OC]: Still too much interference. I'll try compensating. Stand by for further instructions.
TORRES: What happened?
NEELIX: We don't know. He went away for a minute, he screamed, and we found him here.
FESEK: These look like chemical burns.
NEELIX: Without tricorders, it's hard to make a diagnosis.
PELK: It's here.
FESEK: What?
PELK: The creature.
FESEK: You're hallucinating. It's the radiation, but you're going to be all right.
PELK: No. It attacked me. It, oh.
NEELIX: He's going into shock. Cortical stimulator.
FESEK: Pelk, get up!
NEELIX: He's not responding.
(Pelk dies.)
CHAKOTAY: He said the creature attacked him.
FESEK: He imagined it. He was probably scalded when that conduit ruptured.
TORRES: Or maybe there is someone else on this ship.
KIM [OC]: Voyager to away team. Transporter interference has cleared. We're locked onto your coordinates. Stand by.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, Pelk is dead. Lock onto his signal and beam him to Sickbay. Ask the Doctor to determine the cause of death.
KIM [OC]: Aye sir.
CHAKOTAY: Someone still needs to get up there and open the airlocks.
FESEK: Me.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. I'll join you. From now on nobody works alone.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Progress?
KIM: They've vented five decks. Ten to go.
TUVOK: At this rate, they'll reach the control room in approximately three hours. However, the storage tanks will detonate in less than two.
JANEWAY: I've been working on a contingency plan. (She calls up a short range scan on Tuvok's wall monitor.)
TUVOK: An O type star.
JANEWAY: If the freighter exploded within the star's corona it might absorb the radiation.
TUVOK: The star is not on the freighter's trajectory.
JANEWAY: What if we gave it a little nudge?
TUVOK: A series of carefully timed tractor pulses could alter the freighter's course. But given the vessel's weakened state, one miscalculation could set off the explosion.
JANEWAY: I'm still counting on the away team to succeed, but I want to be ready with plan B if they don't.

[Malon Freighter corridor]

TORRES: I don't know about the rest of you but I could sure use a sonic shower.
NEELIX: I'd love to soak in a hot bath for a day or two.
TORRES: Oh no, not me. I want to feel those sonic pulses dissolving every last atom of this grime off my body.
FESEK: We have a decontamination bay on board that can purge over fifty workers at a time.
TORRES: Well, that sounds like fun.
(Torres has a coughing fit.)
NEELIX: B'Elanna? 
TORRES: I'm okay, just a little light-headed.
NEELIX: Your hand.
(It has blisters.)
TORRES: Oh, God.
FESEK: Freighter blight, from the prolonged exposure.
TORRES: Lovely.
FESEK: In my business, it's an occupational hazard.
TORRES: We'd better try inoculating you again.
FESEK: If she's blistering, she's already received a fatal dose of radiation. She needs treatment.
TORRES: I'll live. Let's keep moving.
FESEK: We have medicines in the infirmary. It's only two sections from here.
TORRES: We don't have time for a detour.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, go with him. We'll meet you outside the control room.
TORRES: Chakotay, I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: I said go!

[Malon Freighter Infirmary]

TORRES: This is the infirmary? It looks more like a morgue. What happened to him?
FESEK: It looks like he was being treated for long term exposure. He was probably left behind during the evacuation.
TORRES: Tough luck, huh?
FESEK: There was nothing more we could do for him. He was a core labourer.
TORRES: Meaning?
FESEK: He worked close to the storage tanks. Only three of ten core labourers survive a standard mission.
TORRES: Occupational hazard?
FESEK: They know the risks when they accept the assignment.
TORRES: They know they're going to end up like this?
FESEK: Core labourers can make more in two months than most Malon make in a lifetime.
TORRES: What good is the money if they're not around to collect it.
FESEK: It will go to his family.
TORRES: What is that thing?
FESEK: It's a subdermal injector. It contains analeptic compounds to reverse the cell damage.
TORRES: I feel better already.
FESEK: I won't hurt you. I've done this a hundred times. You'll feel a slight burning sensation.
(Fesek plunges the two large needles into Torres' neck.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Commander. The Captain's plan B. I've calculated the inertial force required to divert the freighter. Plan C. Shield modulations that should reduce the structural damage of Voyager. It will also help protect the crew against theta radiation poisoning, if we fail.
TUVOK: A wise precaution. With any luck, we won't be needing it.
SEVEN: I didn't think Vulcans believed in luck.
TUVOK: As a rule we don't, but serving with Captain Janeway has taught me otherwise.
SEVEN: She does seem to succeed more often than random chance would allow. I'll factor it into my calculations.
TUVOK: Is there a Plan D?
SEVEN: No.

[Malon Freighter deck five]

(The team is doing the work on the run now.)
FESEK: Initiating decompression sequence, deck four. Deck clear.
NEELIX: Twelve down, three to go.
TORRES: The airlocks are opening on this deck.
FESEK: What?
TORRES: I can't close them.
(The atmosphere starts to rush out.)
NEELIX: Forcefields, where are they?
TORRES: They're offline!
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get off this deck. Move!
FESEK: This way.
(They climb an access ladder. Chakotay is last, and gets hit by a piece of flying debris.)

[Malon Freighter deck four]

TORRES: Chakotay!
NEELIX: He was right behind me.
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay.
FESEK: That deck is a vacuum by now.
TORRES: Torres to Voyager.
KIM [OC]: Acknowledged.
TORRES: Lock onto Chakotay's comm. signal and beam him to Sickbay.
(There is a pause, then)
KIM [OC]: We've got him. He's okay.
TORRES: I thought that deck was secure.
FESEK: It was.
TORRES: Then why did we almost get blown into space?
FESEK: I don't know.
TORRES: Airlocks don't open by themselves!
FESEK: What are you saying? You think it was me?
NEELIX: Calm down, both of you! We don't have time to argue about what happened. We've got to keep moving.
(A shadowy figure watches them leave.)

[Bridge]

(Janeway is working at engineering station 2.)
JANEWAY: Chakotay?
TUVOK: Unconscious but stable. The Doctor is treating him now. We'll be able to talk to him in less than an hour.
JANEWAY: I'll want a full report.
TUVOK: Shall I beam to the freighter and take command of the away team?
JANEWAY: I just spoke with B'Elanna. She's got everything under control.
TUVOK: This is a dangerous situation. There is no margin for emotional error.
JANEWAY: We have plenty to do here. Help me remodulate the tractor beam.
TUVOK: B'Elanna is unpredictable, Captain. Under these circumstances, her volatile nature could compromise the mission.
JANEWAY: Your concerns are noted, but if I send you over there I'd be sending the wrong message. That I don't have faith in her. But I do.
TUVOK: Your faith is admirable, but logic suggests
JANEWAY: This isn't about logic, it's about trust. She'll come through for us. Now, give me a hand.

[Malon Freighter deck two]

(Torres is kneeling with her back against a bulkhead.)
NEELIX: Lieutenant? Lieuten. Are you all right?
TORRES: Fine. Report.
NEELIX: We just vented the last deck. We should have a clear path to the control room.
TORRES: Let's get this thing over with, then.
NEELIX: If you need to rest.
TORRES: I said I'm fine. I was meditating.
NEELIX: Meditating? You?
TORRES: Do me a favour. Don't tell Tuvok.
NEELIX: Your secret's safe.
TORRES: It's this place.
NEELIX: I know how you feel. The next time I volunteer to board a Malon freighter, check me into Sickbay and have my head examined.
TORRES: I feel like I'm ready to explode.
NEELIX: We'll get through this together. I've got a knack for diffusing explosive situations.
TORRES: Thanks.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES [OC]: Torres to Astrometrics.
SEVEN: Go ahead.
TORRES [OC]: We're outside the control room

[Malon Freighter corridor]

TORRES: But without tricorders we can't tell if it's safe to go in there.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The room is too heavily shielded. Our sensors can't penetrate it.

[Malon Freighter corridor]

SEVEN [OC]: You must stand by. 
FESEK: The theta dampening field is still active. It should be safe.
TORRES: After you.

[Malon Freighter control room]

FESEK: It's worse than I expected. The theta gas has leaked into the warp manifold.
NEELIX: We've got less than ten minutes before this vessel explodes.
FESEK: Emergency systems are down.
TORRES: This should feed enough energy to your power matrix to reinitialise them. Try it now.
FESEK: They're coming back online, but only one containment grid is still operational. We have two unstable tanks. One grid can't handle them both.
TORRES: We'll seal them one at a time.

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay wakes.)
CHAKOTAY: Doctor?
EMH: Easy, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Ow, my head aches.
EMH: I'm not surprised. You took a severe blow.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to get back to the freighter.
EMH: Not in this condition. If you want to help, you can answer some questions about Mister Pelk's death. I've found unidentified tissue in his wounds.
CHAKOTAY: What sort of tissue?
EMH: The computer is running a microcellular scan.
CHAKOTAY: Pelk said he was attacked.
EMH: Ah yes, the Malon Bogeyman.
COMPUTER: Microcellular analysis is complete.
EMH: Odd. The tissue is saturated with theta radiation, but it's not showing signs of decay. It came from someone or something that's developed a resistance to the radiation. Sickbay to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Yes, Doctor.
EMH: Scan for additional lifeforms aboard the Malon vessel.
SEVEN: I've been running continuous scans.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I assure you there is no one there aside from the away team.

[Sickbay]

EMH: This lifeform's heavily irradiated. It could be blending in with ambient toxins.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I'll recalibrate our sensors.

[Malon Freighter control room]

FESEK: Tank one stable. 
TORRES: Reroute the containment grid to the tank two.
(Bang!)
NEELIX: What happened?
FESEK: A power surge. We're losing the grid.
TORRES: It was triggered from a workstation on this deck.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to away team.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We've detected an alien lifeform aboard the freighter. We believe it killed Pelk.
TORRES [OC]: Captain, we just lost power.
JANEWAY: We're diverting the freighter into a nearby star. Leave the control room so we can get a lock on you.
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Malon Freighter control room]

(The control room door shuts.)
NEELIX: What's going on?
TORRES: It's jammed.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: To away team. I've detected the alien lifeform. It's moving toward your position.

[Malon Freighter control room]

(Gas pours in through the air vents.)
NEELIX: The gas is being routed through the environmental systems.
TORRES: I'll try to shut it down.
NEELIX: Is there another way out?
FESEK: No.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Do you have them?
KIM: Not yet.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The lifeform has entered the control room.

[Malon Freighter control room]

TORRES: I'm trying to vent the gas, but the release valves are jammed.
FESEK: Use the environmental controls instead.
TORRES: In the meantime, see if you can get that hatch open.
(The lifeform knocks out Neelix.)
TORRES: Neelix?
(She draws her phaser.)
FESEK: No, you'll ignite the gas.
TORRES: Neelix?
(She goes into the cloud of gas, and Neelix grabs her shoulder before collapsing into her arms.)
TORRES: We've got to get him back to Voyager. Get that hatch open!
FESEK: I'm trying!
TORRES: Fesek, behind you!
(The lifeform attacks Fesek. Torres gets a metal pipe and takes a swing, then backs away to a control panel to vent the gas. The clearing air reveals -)
TORRES: You're a core labourer.
VIHAAR: Not anymore.
(His skin is a mass of blisters.)
TORRES: Stay back. Don't make me kill you.
VIHAAR: I'm already dead.
TORRES: You've been sabotaging this ship.
VIHAAR: There's no other way to make them understand.
TORRES: So that's your way of getting even? Killing your crew? Causing an explosion that will contaminate other ships?
VIHAAR: They poisoned me!
(He attacks Torres, she dodges then the freighter shakes, knocking them both to the deck.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The freighter is on course for the star.
JANEWAY: Away team, we've adjusted the vessel's course. It's heading for an O type star.

[Malon Freighter control room]

JANEWAY [OC]: You have to get out of there now. 
VIHAAR: No. No.
(He uses the control panel.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: The freighter's manoeuvring thrusters just activated. It's altering course.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
TUVOK: No effect. I'm detecting radiation surges in the theta tanks. They're going to detonate in three minutes.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: As long as they're in the control room I can't get a lock
JANEWAY: Janeway to away team. Get those manoeuvring thrusters

[Malon Freighter control room]

JANEWAY [OC]: Offline then get out of the contaminated area. We can't get a transporter lock on you.
TORRES: Get the hell away from there, now!
VIHAAR: No! It's too late!
TORRES: Okay. Okay. Look, I know what they've done to you. They used you. You want to hurt them. Listen, listen to me. I know. I know that you're so angry you want to destroy everything in sight, but there's another way to make them understand. I'm on your side. I can help you. Innocent people are going to die if you do this.
VIHAAR: No. It's over.
TORRES: Please, please. Please, let me help you. 
VIHAAR: No.
TORRES: Step away!
(She thrashes Vihaar with the metal pipe, then uses the control panel.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: The Malon's thrusters are powering down.
TUVOK: I have restored the freighter's trajectory.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, get out of there.

[Malon Freighter control room]

(Torres helps Neelix.)
TORRES: Come on, we've got to go. Fesek.
(Voyager peels off as the freighter approaches the star and starts to explode.)

[Bridge]

(The shock wave makes some consoles go bang.)
JANEWAY: The away team, Mister Kim?
KIM: I got them.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Maybe the meditation's working.
TORRES: What makes you say that?
CHAKOTAY: From what Neelix told me. You kept your temper in check over there.
TORRES: Don't expect me to make a habit of it.
EMH: Well, I've repaired most of your cellular degradation. (to Fesek) I wish I could say the same for you, but you've suffered long term systemic damage. Your condition will deteriorate over time.
FESEK: It's an occupational hazard.
JANEWAY: We've contacted a Malon transport ship in the next sector. We've altered course to rendezvous with them.
FESEK: Thank you, Captain. I don't know how I'm going to explain what happened.
TORRES: Tell them the truth. Tell them the Vihaar is no myth.

[Torres' quarters]

(Torres undresses, and remembers her furious attack on the Vihaar.)
TORRES: Computer, activate sonic shower.


S5 E22
Someone To Watch Over Me
Stardate: 52647
Original Airdate: 28 April 1999

[Mess hall]
(Seven is standing near the door, tapping on a PADD. Paris and Torres are having a candle-lit dinner for two.)
PARIS: So, Harry throws it in gear, floors the gas, and backs us right through a burrito stand.
TORRES: So when are you going to teach me how to drive?
PARIS: You sure you're ready?
TORRES: I've piloted starships. I think I can handle a car.
PARIS: You'd be surprised. The clutch on a '69 Mustang can be pretty tricky.
TORRES: Take a look. She's watching us again.
PARIS: She's working. Relax.
NEELIX: Dessert?
TORRES: What is it?
NEELIX: Some cheese I prepared for our Kadi guest. Tell me what you think.
TORRES: It's a little bland.
NEELIX: Just a little? Oh, that's bad. The Kadi don't approve of spices. Anything that might inflame the senses.
PARIS: You're talking this mission very seriously.
NEELIX: The Kadi are easily offended. The Captain's leaving their representative entirely in my hands while she's at the colony.
PARIS: I'm sure you're up to it, Ambassador.
NEELIX: I hope so.
TORRES: She's watching us again.
(Seven sits at a table.)
PARIS: You're imagining things.
TORRES: I don't think so.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
(Torres goes over to Seven.)
TORRES: Enjoying the view?
SEVEN: Explain.
TORRES: You've been staring at us all night. In fact, you were following us yesterday when we were walking to Engineering, and the day before when I was waiting for Tom outside the shuttlebay.
SEVEN: You are correct, I have been observing you. It's part of my research on human mating behaviour.
(Torres takes the PADD and reads.)
TORRES: Stardate 52647, fourteen hundred hours. Subjects quarrel in corridor outside female's quarters. Male returns with twelve flowering plant stems, species rosa rubifolia, effecting a cessation of hostilities. Stardate 52648, oh three hundred hours. Intimate relations resume. How the hell do you know when we're having intimate relations?
SEVEN: There is no one on deck nine section twelve who doesn't know when you're having intimate relations.
NEELIX: Is there a problem?
TORRES: I want all the data you've collected.
SEVEN: I haven't completed the study.
TORRES: Then study this. Borg provokes Klingon, Klingon breaks Borg nose.
NEELIX: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Call Sickbay. Tell them there's about to be a medical emergency.
PARIS: B'Elanna, let's go have a nightcap.
TORRES: This time you've crossed the line.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I read B'Elanna's report. Needless to say, I was surprised.
SEVEN: I was careful not to violate protocols.
JANEWAY: That's not the point. This is a starship, not a nature preserve. Oh, I'm missing a pip.
SEVEN: You asked me to broaden my knowledge of human behaviour.
JANEWAY: I'm not questioning your goals, Seven. It's your methods. You shouldn't be taking field notes on the crew. Help me with this, will you please?
(Seven attaches the errant rank pip to Janeway's dress uniform.)
JANEWAY: Have you ever considered trying it yourself? Romance, I mean.
SEVEN: I do not require a romantic relationship.
JANEWAY: So why'd you collect thirty thousand gigaquads of information on the subject? I'm late.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I missed this on my first pass through their database. Kadi monks only wash with purified water, so sonic showers are out.
NEELIX: I've already equipped his quarters with an ablutionary fountain built to their specifications.
TUVOK: They observe eight daily services.
NEELIX: Noted.
JANEWAY: Show the ambassador our best side, Neelix. I don't want him going back to his superiors with tales of how immoral we are.

[Transporter room]

TUVOK: Energise.
(Two stern figures are beamed aboard.)
NEELIX: (sotto) The ritual greeting.
JANEWAY: Travellers who have left the sanctity of their home and family, we welcome you into our home, our family.
ABBOT: Accept these symbols of our purity and the goddess mother's blessing.
(He places an embroidered white silk stole over Janeway and Tuvok's left shoulders.)
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok, the senior officer who will accompany me, and Mister Neelix, who will familiarise your Ambassador with Voyager.
ABBOT: Tomin is an excellent judge of character. He'll help us determine whether your crew is worthy of receiving our minerals.
JANEWAY: He's in very good hands.
ABBOT: It is time to welcome you to our home.
(Janeway and Tuvok are beamed away with the Abbot.)
NEELIX: This way, Ambassador.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Voyager's an Intrepid class starship with a crew of one hundred and forty six, designed for long-term exploration. I thought we'd start with a tour of our primary systems. First stop, Engineering.
TOMIN: I was hoping I might sample a food item I noted earlier in your data files. Hasperat.
NEELIX: It's a Bajoran dish. Very spicy. I believe that your dietary protocols prohibit flavourful foods.
TOMIN: I want to broaden my palate while I'm here, in the interest of better understanding.
NEELIX: In that case, first stop, mess hall.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Your cortical implants are operating at peak efficiency. Nanoprobe levels stable. Complaints?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: I heard about the mess hall incident.
SEVEN: This crew can be very efficient at disseminating information when they choose to be.
EMH: They say gossip travels faster than warp speed. So why were you studying Tom and B'Elanna?
SEVEN: Scientific curiosity.
EMH: Are you sure? Perhaps there's a reason that hasn't occurred to you. You're a woman, Seven.
SEVEN: Is that an observation or a diagnosis?
EMH: A simple biological fact, with repercussions that are hard to deny.
SEVEN: What is your proposed treatment?
EMH: Perhaps you should consider expanding your research to the realm of dating.
SEVEN: Dating. You mean procreation?
EMH: One step at a time. Dating is a human ritual wherein two people share a social activity, get to know each other. In time, it can lead to a romantic involvement and eventually, if all goes well, even marriage.
SEVEN: One step at a time.
EMH: This could be an important stage in your social development. It's worth exploring.
SEVEN: The Captain would seem to agree. How shall I proceed?
EMH: You mean, we. I'll prepare a lesson plan. Meet me on Holodeck two in one hour. Most women start dating a little younger than you but, better late than never.

[Holodeck two]

EMH: I've prepared an introduction. I call it Love Amid the Stars. (He starts a slide show.) The Milky Way, home to thousands of humanoid species and countless courtship rituals. Klingon males initiate courtship by biting the female. Here we see two Bolians getting to know one another. (touching foreheads.) The courtship rituals of some species remain shrouded in mystery. For example Species 8472 appears to have as many as five sexes. Bystanders better keep their distance. Of course, the species you're most likely to interact with is human, so without further ado, Lesson One. First Contact. There are any number of ways humans can meet prospective mates. Here we see the chance encounter. Equally common is the formal introduction. When first contact is successful, romance quickly ensues and, in the happiest of circumstances, procreation. Here we see how fortress ovum is besieged by countless little warriors.
SEVEN: Doctor, I am familiar with the physiological processes of sexuality.
EMH: Oh. Then let's skip ahead to the first of the practical exercises. Lesson two. Encounter in a Public Place. Computer, initiate holo-programme Paris three.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]

SEVEN: Our location?
EMH: Chez Sandrine. It's on Earth, in a city called Marseilles. Ensign Paris whiled away a good portion of his Academy years here, no doubt to the detriment of his scholastic performance. Now, pull up a bar stool and pretend you've come here to meet the man of your dreams. Hi, there.
(They both read from PADDs.)
SEVEN: Hello.
EMH: Come here often?
SEVEN: This is my first time.
EMH: You must be new in town. How do you like the south of France?
SEVEN: It is very quaint. Exactly as I've always pictured it.
EMH: May I buy you a drink?
SEVEN: I don't require a liquid supplement at this time.
EMH: You're not giving this a fair chance
SEVEN: This exercise is pointless.
EMH: It may seem pointless, but small talk is a vital dating skill. It helps to establish a rapport with your companion.
SEVEN: Perhaps there's something to be said for assimilation after all.
EMH: All right, why don't you try your own approach on that gentleman over there? Go ahead.
SEVEN: Very well.
(She takes a quick look at the EMH's script and goes over to a table.)
SEVEN: Hello.
PRICE: Hello.
SEVEN: May I buy you a drink?
PRICE: Er, sure. Steven Price.
(Seven's handshake is extremely strong and firm.)
PRICE: And you are?
SEVEN: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of. You may call me Seven.
PRICE: Seven. That's an unusual name. Please, have a seat.
PARIS: Looks like Sandrine's is under new management. Who deleted my pool table?
EMH: Shush. School is in session.
PARIS: More social lessons?
EMH: Watch. You might learn something.
PRICE: Curious jewellery.
SEVEN: It's a Borg implant. I was a drone.
PRICE: Oh, so then it's a family heirloom.
SEVEN: Borg do not have families. They have unimatrices.
PRICE: Well, in that case, why don't you tell me about your unimatrix.
EMH: They're hitting it off, don't you think?
PARIS: He's a hologram.
EMH: Your point?
PARIS: Well, you programmed him to interact with Seven. Real people don't respond the same way.
EMH: Under my guidance, she'll be dating real people in no time.
PARIS: You're teaching Seven how to date? Ha! Talk about the blind leading the blind.
EMH: I've had my share of romantic encounters. Are you implying that Seven couldn't get a date?
PARIS: Are you kidding? Half the men on this ship would jump at the chance. But getting a date is one thing, keeping it from turning into a disaster is another.
EMH: I have every confidence in her social skills.
PARIS: Well, fine. Let's say you get her a date. This is the holodeck. The cards are stacked in her favour. If you want to really put her to the test you have to do it in the real world, where anything can happen.
EMH: Mister Neelix is hosting a reception for the Kadi ambassador on Thursday night. Not only will Seven arrive with a date, she will have him eating out of the palm of her hand.
PARIS: Put your latinum where your mouth is. If Seven brings a date to the reception, and leaves with the same date on good terms, without causing a diplomatic incident, I will work double shifts in Sickbay for the next month.
EMH: And if she fails?
PARIS: I get a month off.
EMH: It's a bet.
PRICE: Where are you going?
SEVEN: Our small talk is terminated. I have mastered this exercise. We can proceed to the next.
PARIS: If I were you I'd start looking for somebody to fill in for me.

[Mess hall]

(Tomin's table is laded with dishes.)
NEELIX: One Ktarian pudding.
TOMIN: Mmm. Ah. Mmm. Ah, the texture is so frothy. It seems to be evaporating in my mouth.
NEELIX: The recipe includes a catalytic agent designed to do just that. If we don't hurry, we'll miss Lieutenant Torres. She's been waiting half an hour.
TOMIN: You're right. Engineering, your warp core. I must see that.
(A crewman and woman sit at another table.)
TOMIN: In our society, males and females work separately, but I can see the wisdom of your approach. Promotes a more stimulating environment.
NEELIX: It's time for third prayer.
TOMIN: Yes, it is. But I think I can forego this service and perform the appropriate penance later. It's more important that I continue exploring your culture. Perhaps another dessert?

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: Good morning. It's time for lesson three. Getting to Know You.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
EMH: The key to finding a compatible partner is learning how to share your interests and goals. We'll start with hobbies. What do you do with your spare time?
SEVEN: Regenerate.
EMH: Ah. Tell me about your tastes, your likes and dislikes.
SEVEN: I dislike irrelevant conversations.
EMH: Okay. Which brings us to goals. What do you want out of life?
SEVEN: Perfection.
EMH: Perfection is a laudable goal for oneself, but you can't expect it from others. I learned that lesson myself when I was first activated. One of the ways I adapted was to pursue interests people could identify with. Holo-photography, for example. Opera.
SEVEN: Music does have intriguing mathematical properties.
EMH: Excellent. Perhaps we can mould this curiosity into an interest. Something you can share with others. Let's see how much you know. Here we see
SEVEN: A basic musical phrase in the major mode. I've done a preliminary study of the topic.
EMH: Sing it for me. (she does.) Seven, has anyone ever told you, you have a beautiful voice? It's a true gift.
SEVEN: The gift is from the Collective. A vocal subprocessor designed to facilitate the sonic interface with Borg transponders.
EMH: Let's try something a little more challenging.
SEVEN: You Are My Sunshine?
EMH: It's a simple melody from Earth's twentieth century. A good piece for beginners. Sing.
SEVEN: The other night, dear, as I lay sleeping, I dreamed I held you in my arms.
EMH: That was flawless, but try putting a little more emotion into it. Like this. When I awoke, dear, I was mistaken and I hung my head and cried. See? Computer, add instrumental accompaniment. On to the chorus. Together now.
BOTH: You are my sunshine, my only sunshine. You make me happy when skies are grey. You'll never know, dear, how much I love you. Please don't take my sunshine away. (The EMH sings harmony) You are my sunshine, my only sunshine. You make me happy when skies are grey.
SEVEN: You'll never know, dear
BOTH: How much I love you. Please don't take my sunshine away.

[Astrometrics]

KIM: Seven, I need the data from those last two Astrometric scans.
SEVEN: In a moment.
KIM: That looks like the crew manifest.
SEVEN: The Doctor asked me to pick a suitable candidate.
KIM: For what?
SEVEN: Lesson ten. The first date.
KIM: Your first date?
SEVEN: I've narrowed the list to two crewmen, based on work performance and compatible interests.
KIM: I didn't know you had any interests.
SEVEN: Neither did I, but apparently they include astronomy, quantum mechanics and music.
KIM: I play the clarinet, you know.
SEVEN: You are not one of the candidates, Ensign.
KIM: Oh. Well, maybe I could help you pick Mister Right.
(Up come the details and image of Doug Bronowski.)
SEVEN: Ensign Bronowski, assigned to the Airponics bay. His work record is flawless and he plays the accordion.
KIM: Badly, very badly. He's got no sense of humour.
(Next up, William Chapman.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant Chapman, Structural Engineering.
KIM: Chapman's a nice guy.
SEVEN: We worked together on an away mission. He seemed efficient.

[Jefferies tube]

CHAPMAN: Robertson, if that's you, I need an isolinear spanner.
SEVEN: It is not.
(Chapman bumps his head and drops the tool he is using down the shaft. Seven catches it.)
SEVEN: I apologise, Lieutenant. I didn't mean to startle you.
CHAPMAN: No, my fault. You need something?
SEVEN: Your presence is required er, rather, it is requested, tonight. Nineteen hundred hours, holodeck two.
CHAPMAN: Another engineering simulation?
SEVEN: Dinner.
CHAPMAN: Dinner?
SEVEN: The consumption of nutritional biomatter.
CHAPMAN: No, I know what dinner is. I just. Are you asking me to join you?
SEVEN: Yes. State your response.
CHAPMAN: Okay. Yes.
SEVEN: Please be punctual.
CHAPMAN: I will, thanks.
SEVEN: A dropped tool can be a workplace hazard. Be more careful next time.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Seven. Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: I have a date.
(Later, the EMH is humming You Are My Sunshine when Paris enters.)
PARIS: Sorry I'm late.
EMH: It's quite all right. In fact, why don't you take the day off, relax. Those double shifts are going to take a lot out of you.
PARIS: Oh?
EMH: Seven of Nine has a date tonight. If all goes well, as I'm sure it will, he'll accompany her to the reception tomorrow.
PARIS: Who'd she pick?
EMH: Lieutenant William Chapman.
PARIS: Ha! Chapman? Good luck.
EMH: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: He's renowned for being nervous around women.
EMH: So.
PARIS: Are you kidding? Seven's dominant personality will have him running for the airlock before dessert.
EMH: Seven may seem intimidating, but that's only a reaction to the way people treat her. In fact, she's an efficient and charming young woman.
PARIS: Efficient. I'll give you that, but charming?
EMH: Most people don't take the time to look beyond her exterior. Did you know she has a lovely singing voice?
PARIS: No, I didn't, but then again, I've never asked her to sing for me.
EMH: What are you implying?
PARIS: It sounds like you're getting a little infatuated with your star pupil.
EMH: Infatuated? That's absurd.
PARIS: Whatever you say, maestro.
EMH: It was part of the lesson plan!

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: You're meeting with him in ten minutes, Seven. Why aren't you ready?
SEVEN: I am.
EMH: Aren't we forgetting something? Lesson eight, Dress for Success.
SEVEN: My appearance is sufficient.
EMH: Sufficient, yes, but you could use a little more panache. Let's start by doing something different with your hair. I don't have much first-hand experience with this, but, try shaking your head a little bit. (The EMH unfastens her pleat.)
SEVEN: Is this more appropriate?
EMH: Yes. When I first designed your dermaplastic garment I also tried my hand at some casual attire. You might want to replicate one of these.
SEVEN: How shall I choose?
EMH: I think you'd look very nice in this one.
SEVEN: I am uncertain how to wear such a garment. Assist me.
EMH: Oh, I, I, I'm sure you'll manage. I'll go prepare the Holodeck. Remember, the idea is to have fun tonight. I'll expect a full report in the morning.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]

(Nerv ous Chapman stares as Seven enters wearing a tight short dress. She has pinned her hair back with a single slide. The EMH is playing the piano.)
CHAPMAN: You, you look beautiful.
SEVEN: Thank you. You look beautiful as well.
CHAPMAN: Thank you. Er, would you like to sit down?
SEVEN: Where is our designated location?
CHAPMAN: Best table in the house. I wasn't sure you'd actually show up.
SEVEN: I requested your presence.
CHAPMAN: Well, to be honest, I thought one of my friends put you up to it. Champagne?
SEVEN: Synthehol impairs my cortical function. Water will suffice.
CHAPMAN: Mind if I?
SEVEN: Proceed.
CHAPMAN: I must admit I'm a little nervous.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
CHAPMAN: Oh, let's just say it's been a long time since I've been out on a date.
SEVEN: I've never been on a date. As a result, I am experiencing anxiety as well.
CHAPMAN: Well, I guess that means we've got something in common. Garçon?
(The waiter ignores him.)
SEVEN: Server, report to this station. We require your assistance.
(Later, the waiter brings the main course. Two whole lobsters.)
CHAPMAN: Problem?
SEVEN: This creature has an exoskeleton.
CHAPMAN: It's a lobster. They're a delicacy on Earth. Try it.
(Chapman breaks into his lobster carefully. The EMH signals Seven to break hers with her hands. She picks it up and rips it in two. Pieces fly all over Chapman.)
SEVEN: I will replicate you a new garment.
CHAPMAN: I'm fine, fine. It's just a little bit of exoskeleton. Maybe we should order dessert.
SEVEN: You wish to accelerate our social encounter.
CHAPMAN: No, no, I didn't say that. I'm just, er, I'm having a very interesting evening. Would you like to dance?
SEVEN: That activity is covered in lesson thirty five. I haven't reached it yet.
CHAPMAN: I'm not much of a dancer myself, but it might be fun.
SEVEN: As you wish.
(They go to the small dance floor,and Chapman takes Seven's hands. She stares at the floor as he leads her around in a small square.)
CHAPMAN: Relax. Try to relax. You seem a little tense.
SEVEN: Relaxation would disrupt my chronographic sequencer. It allows me to maintain synchronous movement with the music.
CHAPMAN: That's handy. But maybe you could ignore your chronographic sequencer and, er, let me lead. That's better.
(Seven sees another couple do a twirl, and she pulls Chapman into one. His shoulder cracks.)
SEVEN: You are damaged.
CHAPMAN: No, I'll be all right.
EMH: You've torn a ligament. I'm afraid you'll have to report to Sickbay. Mister Paris will treat you. No need to mention how this happened.
CHAPMAN: I had a great time, Seven. Let's do this again, someday.
(Chapman leaves.)
SEVEN: I have failed.
EMH: Nonsense. Even Romeo and Juliet hit a few snags at first. Besides, Lieutenant Chapman's not the only lobster in the sea.
SEVEN: I wish to terminate our social lessons.
EMH: Just because you didn't achieve perfection your first time out, doesn't mean you should give up.
SEVEN: Dating is a poor means of interaction. There is far more efficiency in the way you and I communicate. We say what we mean, simply and directly.
EMH: You and I do have a rapport, but we're colleagues. We're not pursuing romance.
SEVEN: No.
EMH: I'm certain you'll be able to master these basic skills in short order.
SEVEN: My first date was certainly short.
EMH: Was that a joke?
SEVEN: Lesson Six, beguiling banter.
EMH: Now you're getting the hang of it. Perhaps this evening doesn't have to end so abruptly. This may be a good time to cover Lesson thirty five, Shall We Dance? Computer, play Someone To Watch Over Me, instrumental only. We'll begin with some simple steps. Place your left hand on my shoulder and your right hand in my left. Now, follow me, one step at a time. Don't worry. I don't have any ligaments to tear.
(He gently pulls her closer and closer. Later that night, a drunken Tomin is at Sandrines, laughing with a Bolian woman and one of another race.)
TOMIN: Another drink!
NEELIX: Ambassador!
TOMIN: Neelix! My friend, my host, my saviour. Neelix, I want you to meet, Alandra and Tria.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
TOMIN: I'm sampling yet another entrée on the menu of pleasure that you have opened up for me.
NEELIX: I checked today's menu, and they're not on it. Coffee, black.
TOMIN: Neelix, I decided to go exploring and I found your holodecks, where I discovered this little gem still simmering in the memory buffer.
NEELIX: You can explore it later. Right now, we've got to get you to your reception.
(The coffee arrives.)
TOMIN: Pungent taste. What is it?
NEELIX: Coffee. And there's plenty more where we're going.
TOMIN: No coffee on our colony. Nothing to tempt the appetite of even the most weak-willed novitiate. Neelix, a confession. I am thinking of leaving the colony, joining Voyager. I want to throw off my vows and immerse myself in your wonderful culture.
NEELIX: That's just the synthehol talking.
TOMIN: No, I've never been more clear-headed about anything, and I have you to thank.
NEELIX: That's right. Up. There we go.

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: Hard at work?
SEVEN: Our lessons have disrupted my duties.
EMH: Then I suppose you're too busy to attend the Ambassador's reception?
SEVEN: My presence is not required.
EMH: True, but it might be an opportunity for you to apply your newfound social skills.
SEVEN: Lesson eleven, Life of the Party?
EMH: Exactly. Join me?
SEVEN: Are you asking me on a date?
EMH: I suppose I am.
SEVEN: Then I accept. Is my appearance sufficient?
EMH: You look perfect.

[Mess hall - reception]

PARIS: How do you bend a hologram's ear? Use a prism. What did the counsellor say to the hologram? You're projecting.
TOMIN: This humour, it's a revelation.
(Tomin has a drink in each hand.)
NEELIX: Are you sure you wouldn't prefer some more coffee?
TOMIN: Coffee. Yes, I'll have that too. Go.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, is it my imagination, or is our guest of honour drunk?
NEELIX: Commander, I tried. I had an itinerary, I even set up a prayer dais in his quarters, but I just couldn't control him. The Captain is due back in the morning with the Kadi minister. What do I do?
CHAKOTAY: Pray.
(The EMH enters with Seven on his arm.)
PARIS: Well, well, well. What do we have here?
EMH: Mister Paris, I believe you know Seven of Nine, my date for the evening.
PARIS: Oh, you don't say? Well, your last date ended up in Sickbay. I hope this one goes a little smoother.
EMH: There's no need to be insulting.
SEVEN: It's all right, Doctor. I believe he is merely engaging in small talk. May I get either of you gentlemen a drink?
PARIS: Yes, a gin and tonic with a twist.
EMH: You know I don't drink. I don't have the stomach for it.
SEVEN: A well-crafted joke, Doctor.
PARIS: Impressive. You've actually taught her to be polite. But don't think you've won our bet. She was supposed to bring a real date.
EMH: Photons and force fields, flesh and blood, why quibble over details. I'm just as real as any of you.
TOMIN: Where's the funny man?
NEELIX: Mister Tomin, please, why don't, why don't we sit down.
TOMIN: Oh, there he is, there he is. Ensign Paris, tell us another one of those hologram jokes.
EMH: You've been stealing my material?
PARIS: That guy's so lubricated he'll laugh at anything.
TOMIN: There he is, the Ambassador of humour.
NEELIX: I could use a little help here.
EMH: Seven, perhaps now would be a good time to review lesson twenty three, Toast of the Town.
SEVEN: Very well.
(She goes to the middle of the room and taps her glass.)
SEVEN: Ladies and gentlemen, I require your attention. May cultural differences encourage us to build bridges of understanding. To all that makes us unique.
(Applause.)
TOMIN: Who is that extraordinary female?
NEELIX: Seven of Nine.
TOMIN: I want to meet her.
NEELIX: Take a number.
PARIS: That was lovely.
SEVEN: Thank you.
PARIS: I've got to admit it, you've done wonders. All right, you win.
SEVEN: Win?
PARIS: I know when I'm licked. You tell me when you want me to start those double shifts.
SEVEN: You made a wager regarding me? Clarify.
EMH: It's not what you think.
PARIS: Er, don't blame him, it was my idea.
SEVEN: I believed your interest in my social development was sincere, not motivated by personal gain.
EMH: It was sincere.
SEVEN: Clearly I am not the only one who requires social lessons. Thank you for a lovely evening.
(Tomin stops her leaving.)
TOMIN: Hey, why don't we go back to my quarters? I've studied human mating rituals.
SEVEN: Remove your hand or I will remove your arm.
(Seven leaves.)
TOMIN: Did you hear what she said to me? I am the guest of honour!
CHAKOTAY: Ambassador, it's been a long day. Maybe you should get some rest.
TOMIN: No! I'm not leaving! I want another drink.
(Tomin staggers, falls, and passes out.)

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: I thought synthehol wasn't supposed to have this effect on people.
EMH: Most people. The enzymes that break down synthehol aren't present in his bloodstream.
NEELIX: Can you counteract the effects?
EMH: I can synthesise the enzymes, but that'll take days.
NEELIX: Days? The Captain will be back in the morning.
PARIS: Maybe he needs a cold shower.
NEELIX: If his superiors find him like this he'll be banished from the colony, and our trade agreement will go right out the airlock.
TOMIN: Oh, Seven of mine.
SEVEN: It may be possible to encode some of my nanoprobes to assimilate the synthehol molecules.
TOMIN: Assimilate me.
EMH: There may be some adverse effects.
TOMIN: Please.
EMH: But it's worth a try.
NEELIX: The Kadi have rules against medical procedures that haven't been sanctified.
PARIS: I'd say he's already violated a few rules. What's one more?
EMH: Either we treat him or he remains intoxicated. You're his caretaker, decide.
NEELIX: Nanoprobes.

[Medical lab]

EMH: I owe you an apology.
SEVEN: Nanoprobe extraction is an insignificant procedure. My systems will adapt.
EMH: No, I'm referring to the wager I made with Ensign Paris. I can see how you might have felt manipulated, but I assure you that was never my intention.
SEVEN: I accept your apology.
EMH: I want to make this perfectly clear so there's no room for misunderstanding. I asked you to go with me to the reception because I enjoy your company. In fact, over the last few days I feel as though we've grown closer.
(He extracts the nanoprobes.)
SEVEN: Closer?
EMH: We've become more than colleagues. We're friends?
SEVEN: Friends. Agreed. I should begin.
EMH: Of course.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I'll take over from here. Mister Paris. Hypothetically, if one develops romantic feelings for another person, how does one usually go about expressing them? It's for one of Seven's social lessons.
PARIS: Ah. I recommend the direct approach. Tell the person how you feel.
EMH: What if the feelings aren't mutual?
PARIS: Well, that's the risk you always take.
EMH: Oh. Thank you.
PARIS: Why don't you tell her? Come on, Doc. It's obvious the Ambassador is not the only one in this room who's intoxicated.
EMH: Impossible. She's my student.
PARIS: A hologram and a Borg? Stranger things have happened. Just look at me and B'Elanna.

[Corridor]

TOMIN: Er, could we walk a little slower?
NEELIX: They're due back any minute.
TOMIN: But my throat feels like an ancient parchment. Can't we go back to Sandrine's for a refreshing glass of
NEELIX: No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.

[Transporter room]

TOMIN: Those doors, they're so loud
NEELIX: You've got a hangover.
TOMIN: Neelix, I don't remember much of last night but, I imagine I might have said some things.
NEELIX: You spoke eloquently, charmed the entire crew. Your reception was a success. Understand?
TOMIN: Yes. Neelix, you've been most patient.
NEELIX: Well, that's my job, and it isn't over yet.
(Janeway, Tuvok and the Abbot are beamed aboard.)
NEELIX: Welcome back.
JANEWAY: Good to be home. How's it going?
NEELIX: All systems functioning normally. Ensign Kim detected a minor fluctuation in sensor array, but he took care of it.
JANEWAY: I was referring to Ambassador Tomin. Did he enjoy his visit?
NEELIX: Oh, well, well, I would say that he, er, he enjoyed himself immensely.
ABBOT: There are many distractions aboard this vessel. You didn't indulge in any of their more colourful traditions?
TOMIN: Of course not.
NEELIX: We followed the itinerary that you approved, to the last detail.
ABBOT: Oh, shame.
TOMIN: Your Holiness?
ABBOT: It isn't a violation to explore new experiences, as long as you don't make a habit of it.
TOMIN: I see your point.
ABBOT: Shall we conclude our negotiations, Captain?
JANEWAY: By all means.
TUVOK: I'll show you to the briefing room.
JANEWAY: Good work, Ambassador.

[Cargo Bay two]

(A bouquet of roses and baby's breath are in Seven's alcove.)
EMH: Do you like them?
SEVEN: Species rosa rubifolia. State your intention.
EMH: I wanted to congratulate you on the latest phase of your social development. Why don't you read the card?
SEVEN: You are my sunshine.
EMH: These past few days have been unforgettable. You've brought light into my life, Seven.
SEVEN: You have developed romantic feelings for me.
EMH: It's as if you've become a part of my programme. When we're apart, I, I feel like I'm missing a subroutine. I don't expect you to reciprocate, but I wanted you to know how I feel. (doorbell) Computer, end programme.

[Holodeck]

EMH: Enter. Seven.
SEVEN: I wish to speak with you.
EMH: What a coincidence. I was hoping to speak with you as well.
SEVEN: Regarding?
EMH: You first. What's this?
SEVEN: It's a medical tricorder. I enhanced its scanning resolution by thirty three percent. You once stated you desired a more efficient instrument.
EMH: I suppose I did.
SEVEN: It is a gift. Lesson twenty two, Thanks for the Memories. Is it insufficient?
EMH: No, no, it's very thoughtful.
SEVEN: I chose to convey my gratitude at this time because I no longer require your assistance. It's obvious there are no potential mates for me aboard this vessel. However, if I encounter a compatible individual in the future, I will again seek your guidance.
EMH: Guidance. Of course.
SEVEN: You said you had something to tell me.
EMH: I just wanted to say, the past few days have been unforgettable. Thank you.
SEVEN: You're welcome.
(Seven leaves.)
EMH: Computer, activate holoprogramme Paris three.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]

(The bar is empty. The EMH goes to the piano to play a sad tune and sing.)
EMH: Won't you tell her please to put on some speed, follow my lead. Oh how I need, someone to watch over me.


S5 E23
11:59
Stardate: 22 April 2375
Original Airdate: 5 May 1999

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Good morning.
JANEWAY: Morning.
NEELIX: Requisition reports for the week.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
NEELIX: What can you tell me about the Great Wall of China?
JANEWAY: Pardon?
NEELIX: The Great Wall of China, on Earth. Who built it?
JANEWAY: The Chinese.
NEELIX: What for?
JANEWAY: Why does anybody build a wall? To keep people out.

[Turbolift]

JANEWAY: Deck one.
NEELIX: In fact it was the first Q'in emperor who connected the walls built by a previous dynasty. He did it to prevent an invasion by nomads to the north. How big is it?
JANEWAY: I have a feeling you're going to tell me.
NEELIX: Twenty four hundred kilometres long, median width three point eight metres. Before the twenty second century, it was one of the only manmade objects that could be seen from Earth's orbit with the naked eye.
(Untrue. http://www.nasa.gov/vision/space/workinginspace/great_wall.html)
JANEWAY: Very impressive, Neelix. I had no idea you knew so much about my homeworld.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Status?
CHAKOTAY: We're on a course for the class Y cluster. We should be there in about three days.
JANEWAY: Gives us some time to relax. Carry on. Why this sudden interest in the Great Wall?
NEELIX: I've been studying Earth landmarks.

[Ready room]

NEELIX: Mister Paris and I have been exchanging a little cross-cultural trivia. He's become quite an expert on Talaxian geography.
JANEWAY: All right, here's one for you. What can you tell me about the Millennium Gate?
NEELIX: The Millennium Gate. Constructed in the 21st century in the United States of America. It was another one of the objects that could be seen from orbit. Er, three point two kilometres at the base, one kilometre in height, surface covered with highly reflective solar panels. A self-contained ecosystem.
JANEWAY: It became a model for the first colony on Mars. Did you know that one of my ancestors built it?
NEELIX: Really?
JANEWAY: Not with a hammer and nails, but with words and a lot of courage. Shannon O'Donnel, one of the first woman astronauts. She was the driving force behind the project.
NEELIX: That's something to be proud of.
JANEWAY: We were always told stories about her at family gatherings. The first of a long line of Janeway explorers.
NEELIX: Tell me more. I want something to stump Mister Paris with.
JANEWAY: Where to begin?
NEELIX: The Millennium Gate. How did she get involved with that?
JANEWAY: Well, at that time, she was still in the space programme, but she'd also become something of an entrepreneur. I believe she was asked to join the project by the governor of Indiana. He wanted her expertise on recyclic life support systems. The way my aunt Martha, tells it they flew her in on a private aircraft.

[Shannon's car - driving]

(A model of a lunar lander is dangling from the rear view mirror. The woman driver starts a tape recorder.)
SHANNON: Five am, December 27th, 2000. I'm in the great state of Indiana, I think. I saw the world's largest ball of string this morning, and the world's largest beefsteak tomato this afternoon. It was the size of a Volkswagen. The string, not the tomato. At least Christmas is over. Oh, no.
(Shannon also has a large cup of coffee to sip from. The car develops a fault as she is entering the Future Home of the Millennium Gate.)

[Street]

SHANNON: Excuse me. I think I made a wrong turn. Is there a Millennium Gate around here?
PASSERBY: You're looking at it.
SHANNON: The sign said gas, food, lodging. I need all three.
PASSERBY: You won't find any of that here. Get back on the Interstate and go to exit nine.
SHANNON: I don't think I'm gong to make it.
PASSERBY: Good luck.
SHANNON: Tell me, are people a little friendlier off exit nine?
(But the passerby has turned a corner, and Shannon has rear-ended the car in front.)
SHANNON: Oh, no.
(She gets out to speak to the other driver.)
SHANNON: You stopped.
DRIVER: You didn't. Got a pen?
SHANNON: I, I just didn't see you. I'm sorry. Are you okay?
DRIVER: Insurance?
SHANNON: Not really.
DRIVER: Not really?
SHANNON: It ran out.
DRIVER: It's not too bad. Two hundred bucks ought to cover it.
SHANNON: Two hundred bucks?
DRIVER: Let me guess. The money ran out, too.
(The man gets back in his car and drives away with the tiny scratch on his rear bumper, sorry, fender. Shannon gets back into her car, but it refuses to start. She walks through the snow and ice to -.)

[Alexandria Books]

(Not just books. Magazines and newspapers, too. The owner and his son look down on her from a gallery at the back of the store.)
SHANNON: Hi.
JASON: Hi
SHANNON: The sign said open?
HENRY: Yes, that's right. Till six o'clock. Can we be of assistance?
SHANNON: It's cold outside, and I wondered if I could wait here.
HENRY: For what?
SHANNON: For the tow truck. My car broke down. I'm trying to get to Florida.
JASON: She doesn't look like a corporate hit man.
SHANNON: I assure you I'm not. At least not anymore.
HENRY: Well, in any case, she's unarmed and chilled to the bone. I think we can handle her. Zeus himself watched over travellers. We should follow his example. Make yourself at home.
SHANNON: Thank you.
HENRY: Where's your car?
SHANNON: Down the street, next to the coffee shop. What used to be the coffee shop. It looks like this whole town is closed down.
HENRY: It is.
SHANNON: Except for you, huh?
JASON: This ship will never sink. Right, Dad?
HENRY: Decaf. Not exactly the nectar of the gods.
SHANNON: It'll do. Thank you.
(She picks up a Save our Downtown flyer.)
SHANNON: What's this about, if I may ask?
HENRY: Preserving the past.
JASON: I'm Jason, by the way.
SHANNON: Shannon O'Donnel.
HENRY: I'm Henry. Henry Janeway.
SHANNON: Hi. So, you're trying to get them to stop building this Millennium whatever-it-is?
JASON: The Millennium Gate. The world's first self-sustaining civic environment.
HENRY: That's what the propaganda calls it. It's nothing but hype. It's actually a glorified shopping mall. They've talked all of my neighbours into selling their businesses. Only one thing stands in their way.
SHANNON: You're the last holdout?
HENRY: This time, Rome withstands the barbarians.
SHANNON: I may be able to help you, if you'd be willing to hire me.
JASON: Believe me, you don't want to be licking stamps for the next two days.
SHANNON: We could do all this on a computer.
JASON: Yeah, but my dad doesn't believe in computers. We don't even have one.
SHANNON: Well, I do. We can e-mail every computer within a hundred miles. It'll just take a few hours. It's easy.
HENRY: I'm not hiring anybody right now. Besides, you're going to Florida.
SHANNON: Maybe the tow truck is waiting. Thanks for the coffee.
HENRY: You're welcome.
SHANNON: I wouldn't ask you for a lot. Just enough to fix the car. I really, I kind of need a job right now.
JASON: Dad?
HENRY: I suppose we could use some help.
SHANNON: You do believe in electricity, don't you?

[Bar]

(The waitress brings fresh beers from Bill the barman.)
SHANNON: So, who are these barbarians, anyway?
HENRY: A company down in Texas
SHANNON: Why come here?
HENRY: The City Fathers made it easy for them. Free building permits, deferred taxes, new roads, so the invaders, they return the favour. They have offered us twenty percent above the market price for our properties. You know what the catch is? We've all got to sell.
SHANNON: Everybody must love you.
HENRY: People I knew when I was growing up, family, friends, it seems like they've all just turned against me. If this were Roman times, they'd feed me to the lions.
SHANNON: To the good old days.
HENRY: You know, I was born in the wrong millennium.
SHANNON: I'll stick with the modern age.
HENRY: The classical age. Greatest literature mankind ever produced.
SHANNON: No antibiotics.
HENRY: Families who'd take care of one another.
SHANNON: No cars.
HENRY: Air you can breathe.
SHANNON: No telephones.
HENRY: What a pleasure.
SHANNON: Shorter life spans.
HENRY: Lives that were worth living.
SHANNON: No cold beer.
HENRY: There you got me. Speaking of the modern age, Do you have any plans for the Millennium Eve?
SHANNON: No different than last year's Millennium Eve. I plan to be asleep.
HENRY: Life of the party.
SHANNON: Oh, don't tell me you've bought into all that hype again?
HENRY: Oh, maybe just a little.
SHANNON: Last year, when 2000 arrived? Everyone was convinced it was the dawn of a new era. But when the world didn't end and the flying saucers didn't land and the Y2K bug didn't turn off a single light bulb, you'd think everybody would have realised it was a number on a calendar. But, oh, no, they had to listen to all those hucksters who told them the real millennium was 2001. So this New Year's Eve will be as boring as last year.
HENRY: Come to think about it, I have sold an awful lot of doomsday books.
SHANNON: See what I mean?
HENRY: So, what's in Florida?
SHANNON: I have a cousin down there. I'll stay with her for a while until I can get back on my feet.
HENRY: If you don't mind my asking, did you lose your job?
SHANNON: I'm in a transitional period.
HENRY: From what to what.
SHANNON: From what I was doing to what I'm going to do. Your son tells me that your bookstore's belonged in your family for generations. That you've never done anything else.
HENRY: Yes, that's right.
SHANNON: You know, I'm just the opposite. I love to see places I've never been, try new things. I'm kind of an explorer.
HENRY: Really? Hmm. That station wagon of yours doesn't exactly look like a sailing ship.
SHANNON: It's a rocket ship.
HENRY: My mistake.
(The customers go outside to see why the ground is shaking. There are big dumper trucks driving down the street.)

[Television]

(Channel 3 Action News is interviewing Gerald Moss, Millennium Gate Spokesman.)
MOSS : We have every intention of breaking ground on Monday. Day one of the next millennium. The people of this town have given us their full cooperation.
HENRY [OC]: That's not true!
MOSS: If you'll let me finish, Mister Janeway. With the exception of Mister Janeway here.
COLLINS: Mister Janeway, would you like to comment?
HENRY: Yes. Yes, I would. You, you just can't, you can't bulldoze this town away. This, this is our heritage. This is our past.
MOSS: We're trying to give Portage Creek a future. Can't you see that?
HENRY: Yeah, yeah, your, your future. Your future, not ours. 

[Street]

COLLINS: Mister Moss, we've heard you're considering moving the project to one of your alternate sites. Can you shed any light on that rumour?
MOSS: I'm afraid that's more than a rumour. If we can't work out an arrangement in Portage Creek, we'll have no choice but to select another location.
COLLINS: What city?
MOSS: No comment.
COLLINS: Is it true that Canton, Ohio has been chosen for the alternate
MOSS: Thank you for your time.
COLLINS: Thank you, Mister Moss. 
HENRY: Well, that's that. All we have to do is stand firm till New Year's.
JASON: Easy for you to say. I have to go to school with their kids.
HENRY: Your school is one of the first places they're going to tear down.
JASON: They said they'd build a new one, a better one.
HENRY: Whose side are you on? I'm sorry. We're all in this together. Come on. Let's head back to civilisation.

[Alexandria Books]

HENRY: Where shall we dine tonight? Ah, how does Paris sound? (Henry stands a book of French art open on the table. He and Shannon are dining by candlelight.)
SHANNON: It's Friday night. Can we get a reservation?
HENRY: Well, I think I can arrange it. I know the maitre d.
SHANNON: Too bad I don't speak French.
HENRY: Well, we'll keep it to ourselves. There. To new friends.
SHANNON: And a gracious host.
HENRY: Bon appetit.
SHANNON: I wouldn't mind visiting Paris one day.
HENRY: Yes, it'd be nice.
SHANNON: You haven't been?
HENRY: I haven't been outside Indiana. These are my travelling companions. They'll take me anywhere, anytime.
SHANNON: It's not such a bad idea to experience the real thing every now and then.
HENRY: I prefer my books.
SHANNON: Maybe you just never had the right guide.
HENRY: Is that an offer? I could make a similar argument. Not such a bad idea to settle down every now and then.
SHANNON: Is that an offer? You're a peculiar man, Mister Janeway. Cloistered away with all your books, shutting out the world.
HENRY: Any more peculiar than exploring the Midwest in an ailing station wagon?
SHANNON: Only slightly. Any word on my car?
HENRY: It's got a brand new oil pan.
SHANNON: You forgot to tell me that.
HENRY: Well, we were busy today. It's parked behind the garage whenever you're ready.
SHANNON: First thing in the morning.
HENRY: Not so fast. Jason told me you promised to show him a few tricks on the computer.
SHANNON: I could use another day of rest.
HENRY: Great. Jason'll be pleased. And when you're done with him, perhaps we'll take a stroll along the Boulevard St. Germain.
SHANNON: You're making it difficult to say goodbye.
HENRY: Maybe that's the idea.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: You wished to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: I need your help with this. The Millennium Gate.
SEVEN: Impressive.
(On the astrometrics screen is a massive tower with eight spokes running off from the base which join into roads. The area within the spokes appears to be built up, but the surrounding land is all fields, with the Interstate running past.)
JANEWAY: It was built by one of my ancestors over three hundred years ago. I've been digging through the historical database, but a lot of the information from that era has been lost or damaged. I thought you might be able to help me reconstruct some of it.
SEVEN: Is this relevant to our present mission?
JANEWAY: It's relevant to me.
SEVEN: This ancestor of yours is fifteen generations removed. You only possess a small fraction of her genetic material. Insignificant.
JANEWAY: This isn't about chromosomes, Seven. It's about character.
SEVEN: Explain.
JANEWAY: Shannon O'Donnel inspired me when I was a girl. She had a, an influence on my imagination, on my goals.
SEVEN: I never realised genealogy could have such an impact.
JANEWAY: I wouldn't have become a Starfleet Captain if it wasn't for her.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: The temple of Artemis at Ephesus.
PARIS: That's four.
NEELIX: The Colossus at Rhodes.
PARIS: No. In chronological order.
NEELIX: Right. The Mausoleum of Halicarnassus. The Colossus at Rhodes.
PARIS: That leaves just one more.
NEELIX: The seventh wonder of the ancient world is
PARIS: Can't remember?
NEELIX: Oh, it's right on the tip of my tongue. It's. Forget it, I give up.
PARIS: Ha! I got you. It's the er.
NEELIX: Can't remember?
SEVEN: The Lighthouse of Alexandria built by Ptolemy the Second in 280 BC.
PARIS: Behold the wonder of the modern world. Borg photographic memory. We'll call this one a draw.
NEELIX: Brushing up on Earth's history?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway requested that I research one of her ancestors.
NEELIX: Shannon O'Donnel.
SEVEN: You've heard of her.
NEELIX: Who hasn't? You mind if I lend a hand?
SEVEN: If you wish.
(Neelix picks up a PADD.)
NEELIX: Sven 'Buttercup' Hanson.
SEVEN: He was one of my progenitors. A twenty second century prize-fighter. The Captain encouraged me to investigate my genealogy as well.
NEELIX: Well, your ancestors can tell you a lot about yourself.
SEVEN: Somehow, I doubt 'Buttercup' has much relevance to me.
NEELIX: The connection could be deeper than you think. Sven. Seven.
SEVEN: A coincidence.
NEELIX: The point is, there's some of him in you. Just as there'll be some of you in your descendants.
SEVEN: If I choose to procreate.
NEELIX: I wouldn't dismiss it so lightly. Someday you may enjoy a little Seven of Nine point five running around. Or not. Or not.
SEVEN: My research has failed. I have found no references to this individual.
NEELIX: Well, genealogy's a lot like fishing. You've got to cast a wide net. Computer, expand record search for subject Shannon O'Donnel to include non-Federation databases. Er, personal archives and photographic indexes, as well.
COMPUTER: Reference found.
NEELIX: Well, take a look at this. Shannon Janeway.
(They have found a photograph in Database 2197 of the elderly Shannon surrounded by several generations of her family.)

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Where in the world did you find this?
NEELIX: A Ferengi database.
JANEWAY: Ferengi?
NEELIX: Eleven years ago, one of their historians collected massive amounts of data about the origin of space travel in the Federation. He wanted to market it as a nostalgic gift item.
JANEWAY: I would have been his first customer.
NEELIX: It's a handsome family, Captain.
JANEWAY: These must be her sons and daughters. Grandchildren. Great-grandchildren.
SEVEN: I've also discovered journalistic accounts in the historical archives. Mostly articles concerning resistance to the Millennium Gate.
JANEWAY: The whole town was against her. Download this image for me, will you, Neelix? I'm going to frame it.
NEELIX: Yes, Captain.

[Bar]

(Shannon is at a table with a map of the USA spread out in front of her.)
COLLINS [on TV]: The citizens of Canton, Ohio greeted Millennium Gate representatives with a small parade today. Canton is one of three alternate sites now being considered by Gate officials. Vowing not to bow to pressure, Henry Janeway, owner of Portage Creek's Alexandria Books, says he has no intention of closing down. Marci Collins, Channel Three News.
MOSS: Next stop, Mars. I used to be in media relations with NASA. As I recall, your class came up with that slogan. Do you mind? It's a shame you didn't make the cut.
SHANNON: Not good enough, I guess.
MOSS: Do you still keep in touch with any of the others?
SHANNON: No.
MOSS: I do. In fact, I made a few calls last night. Remember Lieutenant McMillan?
SHANNON: How's she doing.
MOSS: Co-pilot on the joint mission with the Europeans scheduled for 03. Four months on the space station.
SHANNON: Not bad for a girl with claustrophobia.
MOSS: She got over it. Sorry to hear about your last job. All this downsizing in aerospace. Engineers aren't given the respect they deserve.
SHANNON: Who told you I lost my job?
MOSS: I made a few calls. You don't have to live like this. Borrowing money, sleeping in your car.
SHANNON: You've got no business checking up on me.
MOSS: Actually, I do. We run a history on all our candidates.
SHANNON: Are you trying to make me some kind of an offer?
MOSS: We know you've been working closely with Henry Janeway. He'll listen to you.
SHANNON: Oh. You want me to talk to him, get him to change his mind.
MOSS: If you can.
SHANNON: And in return?
MOSS: We'd give you a job. Make you a consulting engineer on the project. You certainly have the credentials. Well?
SHANNON: I'll think about it.
MOSS: Think quickly. We can't wait another thousand years.

[Shannon's dream]

HOUSTON CONTROL: Roger that, and go ahead.
ARMSTRONG: That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind.

[Alexandria Books]

(Jason is downstairs, using her laptop.)
JASON: Morning.
SHANNON: Morning.
JASON: I didn't think you'd mind. You've got some really great games on this.
SHANNON: Don't worry about it. Have you tried Matrix of Doom?
JASON: Oh, yeah. I got vaporised on level six.
SHANNON: Try launching a flare before entering the steel fortress.
JASON: Cool. Coffee?
SHANNON: Please. Where is your father?
JASON: Bloomington. All the suppliers in town are boycotting us, so he went up there to place some orders.
SHANNON: He left you in charge?
JASON: Alexandria Books, may I help you?
SHANNON: Sounds like you've got it down.
JASON: I pay the bills too. Dad's not very good at accounting. You have any kids?
SHANNON: No.
JASON: Not a priority?
SHANNON: I wouldn't say that. I just never got around to it. If you don't mind me asking, where's your mom?
JASON: She died.
SHANNON: Oh, I'm sorry.
JASON: I was really young. I don't remember her much. Dad says none of the great heroes grew up in a nuclear family. Hercules, Achilles, Odysseus. They all grew up with single parents.
SHANNON: You're in good company. You like working here, Jason?
JASON: It's okay.
SHANNON: You know, I get the feeling you don't share your father's enthusiasm about preserving the past.
JASON: I don't know. The Millennium Gate could be pretty cool.
SHANNON: Did you ever see the first landing on the moon? One small step for man.
JASON: They showed it in science class one time.
SHANNON: I saw it on TV when I was eleven years old. The whole world watched it.
JASON: Must have been great.
SHANNON: Oh, it way. So, do you have any heroes?
JASON: We are not living in a heroic age, that's what my dad says.
SHANNON: Come on, there's got to be somebody.
JASON: Dad. I mean, he's a pain sometimes, but he's pretty cool. (phone rings) Alexandria Books, may I help you? That's all right. First call in three days and it's a wrong number.
(The television Countdown to Midnight films Henry returning to the store with 12:10:50 to go.)
HENRY: Glorious Hector, son of Priam, slips past the Greek front lines bringing much-needed supplies to the embattled city of Troy.
JASON: Hey, Dad you're famous.
(A picture of his confrontation with Moss is on the newspaper front page.)
SHANNON: Local business owner topples Gate.
HENRY: Let it fall. Any customers this morning?
JASON: No one here but us galliforms.
SHANNON: That's chickens for the non-scientists in the crowd.
HENRY: You two are dangerous together. Portage Creek will thank us one day. You don't sacrifice history for a shopping mall.
SHANNON: It's a little more than that, Henry.
HENRY: I beg your pardon?
SHANNON: I said, it's not just a mall.
HENRY: Have you read the promotional literature? Over six hundred retail spaces available. Franchise potential.
SHANNON: There's a commercial dimension to the project, but that's not its only function.
HENRY: What's your point?
SHANNON: I've learned a few details about the Millennium Gate. It's a self-sustaining city, an experimental biosphere. It's never been done before.
HENRY: What's wrong with the biosphere we're living in now?
SHANNON: Nothing.
HENRY: Exactly.
SHANNON: But this project will help scientists learn more about our environment. Possibly even recreate it on other worlds.
HENRY: Other worlds? Don't we have enough problems on the one we're on?
SHANNON: Yeah. Which is why I'd like to get the hell off it one day.
HENRY: I think you're taking this exploring a little too far.
SHANNON: And you're so afraid of change you can barely walk out that front door. The Millennium Gate has a lot of potential, Henry. You just can't see it. All you can see are these books. You're living in the past.
HENRY: Sounds like you've been sleeping with the enemy.
SHANNON: Having a beer, anyway.
HENRY: Moss.
SHANNON: He offered me a job.
HENRY: Doing what?
SHANNON: Consulting engineer.
HENRY: On the Millennium Gate?
SHANNON: I said I'd think about it.
HENRY: And he said, get Janeway to sign on the dotted line and you're hired?
SHANNON: That's one way of looking at it.
HENRY: And when I say no, then what? You're going to go with them, right? To Canton, Ohio, or the Third Circle of Hell, or wherever it is they decide to build this damn thing.
SHANNON: I can't keep living out of my car.
HENRY: You don't have to. Stay here.
SHANNON: No.
HENRY: Why not?
SHANNON: Because I can't.
HENRY: That's not a reason.
SHANNON: Because I don't want to! You've been really nice to me, Henry, but I can't get stuck here.
HENRY: Stuck? Like me?
SHANNON: I didn't say that. You can live however you want to.
HENRY: And so can you.
(Henry holds out the bag and Shannon puts her laptop into it.)
JASON: What's going on?
HENRY: We're helping our guest resume her journey.
JASON: But I thought you were staying here for a while.
SHANNON: Something came up.
HENRY: We can manage by ourselves. I guess saying goodbye isn't that difficult after all.
(Jason runs after Shannon.)
HENRY: Jason. Jason, where you going?
JASON: Aunt Pat's. Happy New Year.

[Street]

(Countdown films this, too, at 12:07:53)
HENRY: Jason? Jason!

[Ready room]

KIM: It was around 2210. My uncle Jack was on a deep space mission to Beta Capricus.
PARIS: That's when deep space meant the next star over.
KIM: And that was when they still had to go into stasis. So, Jack put his crew under as soon as they left orbit, and piloted the ship by himself for six months.
NEELIX: No contact with anybody along the way?
KIM: There wasn't anybody along the way. Not back then. The transmitter wasn't even subspace. It took weeks to get a message back to Earth.
SEVEN: I would prefer stasis.
PARIS: Me too. That long alone, I'd probably go a little batty.
KIM: So, six months to Beta Capricus and when they finally arrive, there's nothing there.
NEELIX: No planets?
KIM: No. No star, no nothing. It turns out Beta Capricus was just an EM echo of a distant galaxy.
SEVEN: What was his course of action?
KIM: What else could he do? He turned the ship around and headed home.
JANEWAY: And the crew?
KIM: He figured there was no reason to bother them. There's nothing to see, nothing to do. So six months later he gets back to Earth, brings everybody out of stasis, and they wake up wondering why they haven't left orbit.
(Doorbell)
JANEWAY: Come in.
EMH: Oh. I didn't realise you were in a briefing. 
JANEWAY: Not at all. We're talking about our family histories.
EMH: Oh. This can wait. May I join you?
JANEWAY: Please.
EMH: I, too, come from a distinguished line.
PARIS: His cousin's an electric shaver.
EMH: Hardly. My programme was compiled from the most advanced holo-matrices in the Federation. My cousin was a prize-winning chess programme.
SEVEN: Ensign Paris, you have yet to elaborate on your family origins.
PARIS: Well, they were a pretty ordinary bunch, salt of the earth type people. Farmers, mostly. Some planetary colonists. Ah, but there was one. He was a pilot. He flew the first orbital glider over the lower Martian plateau.
NEELIX: Mars? Your ancestor must have known the Captain's.
JANEWAY: She did work on all the early Mars projects. Looks like we go way back, Mister Paris.
PARIS: What was her name?
JANEWAY: Shannon O'Donnel.
PARIS: O'Donnel. I don't think so.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
PARIS: Well, I know all the Mars projects from the 1970s on. Unmanned, manned, who's who. There were no O'Donnels in any of them.
(Janeway has found the newspaper article.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Ship's status report.
JANEWAY: Let me guess. The holographic engineer is having problems with her programme. Neelix, the Cardassian cook, is low on supplies. Seven of Twelve is regenerating and Captain Chakotay is doing just fine. Just wondering how they'll piece together our lives a few hundred years from now.
CHAKOTAY: Depends on how big the pieces are.
JANEWAY: A PADD here, a Captain's log there, maybe a couple of holodeck programmes. It won't be as much to go on as we might think. I've gone through dozens of histories written about twenty first century Earth, all of them biased in one way or another. The Vulcans describe First Contact with a savagely illogical race. Ferengi talk about Wall Street as if it were holy ground. The Bolians express dismay at the low quality of human plumbing. And human historians? Exact same story. Every culture saw it a different way. So I go back to the raw material. Birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates, census surveys, voter registration forms, housing records, medical, employment, court records. It's all fragmented and incomplete.
CHAKOTAY: So, did she exist?
JANEWAY: Her name was Shannon O'Donnel. She did train to be an astronaut, but she didn't finish. She was an engineer, but never worked on the Mars missions.
CHAKOTAY: Did she work on the Millennium Gate?
JANEWAY: Only as a consultant.
CHAKOTAY: What about all the opposition you spoke of? You said she fought to get the project underway.
JANEWAY: There was no opposition. In fact, the Millennium Gate was greeted with open arms by the local population. Except for one man.
CHAKOTAY: Henry Janeway.
JANEWAY: She married him, and changed her name. But she certainly never changed history.
CHAKOTAY: Don't be too hard on her. She may not have known she was supposed to live up to your expectations.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'll get over it. The question is, when we get back to Earth, how will I break the news to Aunt Martha?

[Bar]

(The Countdown is at 02:39:15 and the camera squarely pointed at Alexandria Books.)
COLLINS [on TV]: With less than three hours to go, Henry Janeway still refuses to cooperate with Millennium Gate representatives. I'll return with live updates as midnight approaches. Marci Collins, Channel Three News.
MOSS: I don't suppose there's any chance he'll change his mind?
SHANNON: By midnight? Doubtful.
MOSS: Then it looks like we'll have to scrub the launch, at least where Portage Creek is concerned. It's a shame how one ignorant man can stand in the way of progress.
SHANNON: It's not that simple.
MOSS: Henry's a very likable guy, but he's playing for the wrong team. He's looking back. This town needs people who look towards the future.
SHANNON: Well, while you're looking forward, I'll be driving to Florida.
MOSS: Wait a minute. I'm not about to turn a fellow explorer out into the cold.
SHANNON: I didn't hold up my end of the bargain.
MOSS: If we didn't think you had something to add to this project, we never would have made the offer in the first place. Henry Janeway's pigheadedness doesn't change that. We could still use your help, just not here. (Moss gives Shannon a business card.)
MOSS: My associate in Canton. I'll tell him you're on the way. He'll find a place for you.
JASON: Shannon!
SHANNON: What's the matter?
JASON: It's Dad.
MOSS: See you in Ohio?
JASON: He won't leave the shop. There's all these people outside. The police are there.
SHANNON: Your father can take care of himself.
JASON: Please, won't you talk to him? He'll listen to you.
SHANNON: No, he doesn't, Jason.
JASON: Where are you going? And what's this about I'll see you in Ohio?
SHANNON: Ohio. Florida.
JASON: What's wrong with this place?
SHANNON: It didn't work out.
JASON: I thought you liked us.
SHANNON: I do.
JASON: Then why are you leaving?
SHANNON: I'm sorry.

[Shannon's car - driving]

SHANNON: December 31st, 2000. Eleven fifteen pm. I've got ninety five miles of Interstate before I have to decide whether I head east or south, but those ninety five miles won't be uneventful. My guidebook tells me I'm not too far from Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper, recreated entirely in corn. 
(She passes the sign saying You are now leaving Portage Creek. Drive safely.)
SHANNON: The last few days have been memorable, to say the least. I met Henry Janeway. Interesting man. Liked to talk. Unfortunately, he doesn't listen to anybody but himself. He gave me a place to stay, though. And we had dinner. In Paris, no less. He has a son. Good kid. Bright, like his father.
(She stops her tape recorder and bites into a chocolate chip cookie. And returns to the Future Home of the Millennium Gate.)

[Outside Alexandria Books]

MOSS: I personally don't regret a single day I've spent in this lovely town, and I want to thank you all for your encouragement and support.
COLLINS: Would you consider extending your deadline?
SHANNON: Excuse me. I'm sorry.
POLICEMAN: No further.
MOSS: I'm afraid that's not possible. We'd like to express our deepest regrets to the town of Portage Creek and on behalf of. Excuse me.
COLLINS: Get this.
MOSS: Let her through.
(Shannon is allowed through the police cordon.)

[Alexandria Books]

HENRY: We're closed.
SHANNON [outside]: It's me!
HENRY: I said, we're closed.
SHANNON [outside]: That's not what the sign says. Damn it, Henry, it's cold out here.
HENRY: Who's with you?
SHANNON [outside]: Nobody but us galliforms.
(He unlocks the door.)
HENRY: Thought you'd be in Ohio by now. Car break down again? What the hell are you doing?
SHANNON: Get your things. We're leaving.
HENRY: I'm not going anywhere.
SHANNON: Do I have to drag you out the front door?
HENRY: You can try.
SHANNON: Henry.
HENRY: I won't leave.
SHANNON: It's over.
HENRY: Then I'll have to ask you to leave.
SHANNON: Half the town is out there. You're on the news. Maybe you'll go down in history. You have made your point.
HENRY: Obviously, I haven't, because if I had you wouldn't be asking me to sign my life away.
SHANNON: Maybe if you'd looked up from your books once in a while you'd see what's in front of you.
HENRY: Oh, please, no more speeches about the future.
SHANNON: As long as I don't have to hear you pontificate about the past.
HENRY: It's a deal. Glad we had this chat. Goodbye.
SHANNON: It's almost midnight, Henry.
HENRY: Exactly. I've won.
SHANNON: What have you won? The right to hide behind these shelves for the rest of your life?
HENRY: It's worked so far.
SHANNON: Well, it isn't working for your son, or this town, or me.
HENRY: Look, I know you've got a job to do.
SHANNON: Oh, this isn't about the job.
HENRY: Then why are you here?
SHANNON: It was the cookies.
HENRY: Cookies?
SHANNON: I was on the Interstate. I stopped for gas, and I bought a bag of chocolate chip cookies in a convenience store. It's a little ritual of mine. Whenever I get back on the highway, I like to treat myself.
HENRY: I see. Well, er, what does this have to do with anything?
SHANNON: They didn't taste good, Henry. It wasn't the same. I just kept thinking about you, and how I wish you'd been there.
HENRY: Actually, I prefer oatmeal cookies. I'm allergic to chocolate.
SHANNON: Oh, you don't know what you're missing. It's been a long time, but I'm starting to feel like maybe I found a place where I'd like to stick around for a while, with you and Jason.
HENRY: And we'd like to have you.
SHANNON: But I can't work in a bookstore for the rest of my life. I've been given a second chance, Henry, and I can't lose that. I'm stuck in the future, you're stuck in the past. But maybe we could get unstuck in the present.
HENRY: I, I don't see how with, without sacrificing my
SHANNON: You know, Mister Moss offered me a job in Canton, even though I failed to keep up my end of the bargain. I guess he felt sorry for me. But I'm prepared to turn him down if you want me to stay with you.
HENRY: I suppose I could re-open my shop in that monstrosity you want to build.
SHANNON: Well, I'll have a few connections. I could probably get you a nice remote location, so nobody would bother you.
HENRY: Not much profit in that. You sure you won't drive away again?
SHANNON: No, But if I do, we'll make the trip together.
HENRY: What time is it?
SHANNON: A minute to midnight.
HENRY: Then we're not too late.
(Shannon and Henry leave the store. He turns the sign to Closed and the crowd go wild.)

[Janeway's quarters]

NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes?
NEELIX [OC]: Captain, would you mind coming to the mess hall?
JANEWAY: Is there a problem?
NEELIX [OC]: No, no emergency. But I need to speak with you. A personal matter.
JANEWAY: Give me a minute.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Happy Ancestor's Eve!
ALL: Happy Ancestor's Eve, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's all this?
NEELIX: It's April 22, Ancestor's Eve. It's a holiday first established, er, well, er, today, actually. With the Captain's permission.
JANEWAY: Neelix.
CHAKOTAY: I think he's onto something, Captain. An evening of reflection in honour of those who came before.
KIM: Hear, hear. Uncle Jack would approve.
TORRES: It got me out from under a warp conduit. I'm all for it.
JANEWAY: I appreciate what you're trying to do, but
PARIS: Neelix, the gift.
JANEWAY: What gift?
(The framed photograph.)
NEELIX: Shannon O'Donnel Janeway, circa 2050. We did a little more research. This photograph was taken in a small park near Portage Creek, thirty eight years after the dedication of the Millennium Gate. I thought it would look nice in your ready room, on the shelf next to your desk.
JANEWAY: Thank you, But I'm not so sure she has a place there any more.
SEVEN: You are mistaken, Captain.
JANEWAY: Oh?
SEVEN: Her life captured your imagination. Historical details are irrelevant.
TUVOK: I concur with that analysis.
CHAKOTAY: If it weren't for Shannon O'Donnel, you never would have joined Starfleet.
JANEWAY: Yeah, and I would have never have got you all stuck here in the Delta Quadrant.
TORRES: It gave us all time to get to know each other.
EMH: Time for a family portrait of our own. Everyone, gather around the Captain, please. Face the camera. Smile.
(The EMH sets the timer and joins the group.)
JANEWAY: To family.
ALL: To family.
EMH: Another one for posterity.
JANEWAY: No, no.
PARIS: I think we should get out of here.
JANEWAY: Enough is enough.

[2050]

(A little red-headed boy, the spitting image of the lad in Mad Magazine, is making rabbit ears behind his big sister's head.)
SHANNON: Knock it off, Kieran. That's an order.


S5 E24
Relativity
Stardate: 52861.274
Original Airdate: 12 May 1999

[2371 Transporter room]
(Voyager is still under construction at Utopia Planitia. Janeway is greeted by an elderly Admiral.)
PATTERSON: You're late.
JANEWAY: Sorry, sir.
PATTERSON: What's the threshold of the H-two molecule?
JANEWAY: Fourteen point seven electron volts.
PATTERSON: Third brightest star in Orion?
JANEWAY: Viewed from where?
PATTERSON: Earth.
JANEWAY: Gamma Orionis, or Bellatrix, if you prefer the original Arabic name.
PATTERSON: Not bad. Now, give me a hug, Katie, that's an order.
JANEWAY: I wasn't expecting a pop quiz.
PATTERSON: Just wanted to make sure all those pips haven't made you forget you're a scientist first.
JANEWAY: How could they? I still have nightmares about your fractal calculus final.

[2371 Corridor]

PATTERSON: There's still some work to be done, but once the sawdust clears, I think you'll be impressed. Voyager may not be as big as a Galaxy class ship but she's quick and smart, like her Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven hundred thousand metric tons, fifteen decks, and computer systems augmented with bio-neural circuitry, top cruising speed warp nine point nine seven five.

[2371 Turbolift]

PATTERSON: Deck one.
JANEWAY: Of course, I expect to get that up another notch or two.
PATTERSON: Sounds like you already know your ship pretty well.
JANEWAY: I've been buried in Voyager's schematics for the past three months. I could walk the corridors blindfolded.
PATTERSON: You might not want to shut your eyes just yet.

[2371 Bridge]

PATTERSON: Captain on the bridge.
JANEWAY: As you were. It's bigger than I expected.
PATTERSON: Schematics never fully prepare you for the real thing.
(She walks to the Captain's chair.)
PATTERSON: Try it on. Don't get too comfortable, I have more to show you.

[2371 Ready room]

PATTERSON: Your home away from home.
JANEWAY: Coffee?
PATTERSON: Ah, no thanks.
JANEWAY: Coffee, black. Any word from Tuvok?
PATTERSON: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Shouldn't he have made contact by now?
PATTERSON: We know he's aboard Chakotay's ship. He's probably decided not to risk exposure until he has to.
JANEWAY: Catching up with him in the Badlands is going to be tricky, even in a ship as quick and smart as Voyager. I've heard about a pilot who might make the job easier.
PATTERSON: Who's that?
JANEWAY: Tom Paris.
PATTERSON: Admiral Paris's son? Correct me if I'm wrong, but he's serving a sentence for
JANEWAY: He's made some mistakes. But everybody deserves a second chance.
PATTERSON: I'll look into it.

[2371 Bridge]

JANEWAY: If it's not too late, I'd like to recalibrate the navigational sensors. I think I can enhance the range.
PATTERSON: Your coffee's not even cold, you're already making changes.
JANEWAY: Excuse us, Ensign. I like a ship that knows where it's going.
(Seven of Nine moves away from the console. She has no visible Borg implants.)
PATTERSON: I assure you, Voyager has the best sensors in the fleet.
JANEWAY: There's always room for improvement.
PATTERSON: I assume you've read (muffled under music)
JANEWAY: I have. A few changes (muffled under music)

[2371 Briefing room]

SEVEN: The bridge is clear. No sign of the weapon.
DUCANE [OC]: Continue scanning.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
PATTERSON: Your briefing room.
JANEWAY: Starfleet's most up to date vessel and they still can't design a comfortable place to hold a meeting. What do you think, Ensign?
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: What's your opinion of this room?
SEVEN: It is an efficient design.
JANEWAY: Well, there you have it, Admiral. It's efficient. I must be wrong. Carry on.

[2371 Sickbay]

PATTERSON: We've added a new system we're thinking of installing throughout the fleet.
JANEWAY: The Emergency Medical Hologram. I'm up to date. Computer, activate EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PATTERSON: It's programmed with over four million surgical procedures.
EMH: Five million, and the medical knowledge of over three thousand cultures.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
EMH: Did you call me to chitchat or is there an actual emergency?
JANEWAY: Its personality could use some work.
EMH: I'm designed to practice medicine as efficiently as possible. Small talk only compromises my performance.
PATTERSON: Thank you, Doctor. Computer, deactivate EMH.

[2371 Engineering]

CAREY: Hello.
SEVEN: Sir.
CAREY: Lieutenant Carey. I don't think we've met.
SEVEN: Jameson, Anna, Service number eight six zero seven nine zero.
CAREY: I'm not security. I'm just trying to get to know all the new faces around here. What are you working on?
SEVEN: I am attempting to realign the EPS manifolds.
CAREY: Do you need a hand?
SEVEN: No.
CAREY: Well, maybe I'll see you in the mess hall later.
SEVEN: Unlikely.
CAREY: Hmm?
SEVEN: I am not a member of Voyager's crew. I'm on assignment here at Utopia Planitia.
CAREY: Too bad. Well, next time I'm in the neighbourhood, I'll drop by and say hello.

[2371 Corridor]

JANEWAY: I wish Starfleet would give me more than three weeks. With a little more time we could really explore the Badlands.
PATTERSON: You haven't changed a bit.

[2371 Engineering]

PATTERSON: Main Engineering. Class nine warp drive, tricyclic input manifold. You'll be the first to test it in deep space.

[2371 Jefferies tube]

SEVEN: I've localised the temporal distortions. Deck four, section thirty nine.
(She opens a panel in a junction. Her enhanced sight shows the otherwise invisible object.)
SEVEN: I've found the weapon.
DUCANE: Begin the procedure.

[2371 Engineering]

JANEWAY: Problem?
CAREY: One of the EPS relays just went offline.
JANEWAY: Voyager's first malfunction.
CAREY: I'm sorry, Captain. I tested those systems this morning.
JANEWAY: As you were, Lieutenant. I've been looking forward to getting my hands dirty.

[2371 Jefferies tube]

SEVEN: The weapon is out of phase. You've sent me to the wrong time frame.
DUCANE [OC]: At least we know where the weapon was placed. Now we have to determine when.

[2371 Outside the Jefferies tube]

JANEWAY: This hatch is locked from the inside.
PATTERSON: This isn't a secure area. None of these hatches should be sealed.
JANEWAY: I'm reading some kind of chronoton flux.
PATTERSON: Chronotons?
JANEWAY: It's coming from inside this Jefferies tube.
PATTERSON: Patterson to Security. Seal off deck four.

[2371 Jefferies tube]

SEVEN: I've been detected. I must leave.
BRAXTON [OC]: There's too much interference from the weapon. Recalibrate your temporal transport beacon.
SEVEN: Understood.

[2371 Corridor]

JANEWAY: We can access section thirty nine through here.

[2371 Jefferies tube]

BRAXTON [OC]: Scramble the locking mechanism before they get in. Hurry, they're approaching your coordinates. You'll need to reset the command controls.
DUCANE [OC]: Stand by. We're trying to get you out of there. 

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: It's time. Pull her out.
DUCANE: There's too much interference. If I transport her now we'll damage her bionetic implants.
BRAXTON: If we don't, Captain Janeway's going to find her and it'll contaminate the timeline.
DUCANE: Sir.
BRAXTON: Now.
CREWMAN: Temporal transport in progress.

[2371 Jefferies tube]

JANEWAY: Question, Admiral. What causes a chronoton flux of point zero zero three?
PATTERSON: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Neither do I, but whoever or whatever it was, it's gone now.

[Relativity transporter room]

CREWMAN: The subject is approaching the temporal threshold.
(Seven of Nine solidifies, then collapses.)
DUCANE:I told you this was going to happen. She's dead.

{Relativity]

BRAXTON: Any luck reviving her?
DUCANE: No, sir.
BRAXTON: We'll have to recruit her again.
DUCANE: Sir, a fourth jump? She could suffer neural damage, even temporal psychosis.
BRAXTON: Unless we repair the timeline, she's going to die. We're giving her another chance to save her crew and herself. We'll go back and retrieve Seven of Nine a microsecond before the explosion. That way no one will notice she's gone. Tempus fugit, Lieutenant.
DUCANE: Raise shields. Time frame, stardate 52861.274. Delta Quadrant. Spatial coordinates eighty seven theta by two seventy one. Target, USS Voyager.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven's vision is slightly blurred.)
EMH: Follow the light. To the left, right, and up, and down. Hmm.
SEVEN: I ran a complete self-diagnostic.
EMH: Hmm hmm?
SEVEN: At first I thought my ocular implants were malfunctioning. However, after consulting the Starfleet Medical database, I realise it is a flaw in my human physiology.
EMH: Specifically?
SEVEN: I'm experiencing dizziness, double vision. After considering all potential environmental and genetic factors, I've concluded I'm suffering from Albright-Salzman syndrome.
EMH: A rare neurological condition that hasn't affected a single human being for over two centuries. Unlikely.
SEVEN: Human physiology is imperfect, susceptible to a variety of disorders.
EMH: True, but in this instance, we can safely say that you are suffering from a mild case of sensory aphasia. A minor disruption to your neuro-receptors. Neither rare, nor life-threatening.
SEVEN: Apparently I was in need of a second opinion.
EMH: That's the danger of self-diagnosis. Patients always assume the worst. This should clear it up. How do things look now?
(Seven's vision comes back into sharp focus.)
SEVEN: Normal.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Doctor, please report to Sickbay.
EMH: On my way. Next time your human physiology fails you, don't consult the database. Just call me.
SEVEN: You are the database.
EMH: With two legs and a splendid bedside manner.

[Corridor]

(Paris is walking along, bouncing a table tennis ball on a bat.)
SEVEN: A curious exercise.
PARIS: Yeah. Ping-Pong. You should try it, it's a great test of hand-eye coordination.
SEVEN: I don't require testing.
EMH: Yeah, so the Doc tells me. A visual acuity index of ninety nine point six. You know, you'd be great at this game. Why don't you be my partner in the doubles tournament tonight? Chapman was supposed to play, but he's come down with a nasty case of space sickness.
SEVEN: I'm busy.
PARIS: Oh, too bad. Well, I guess I'll have to tell B'Elanna that you thought you couldn't beat her.
SEVEN: You're attempting to appeal to my vanity.
PARIS: Is it working?
SEVEN: I will consider your request.
PARIS: It's yes or no, Seven. The tournament's tonight.
SEVEN: Yes.
PARIS: Great. Meet me in the mess hall at nineteen hundred hours. We'll get in a little practice first.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Captain, you don't look well. Come in, please.
JANEWAY: I'm sure it's nothing serious.
EMH: Symptoms?
JANEWAY: Nausea, dizziness.
EMH: It looks like a simple case of space sickness. The third one I've treated today.
JANEWAY: That's odd. We haven't run into any turbulence.
EMH: It's possible the inertial dampers are out of alignment.
JANEWAY: Even so, I've been on some pretty rough rides. It's never affected me like this
EMH: It happens to everyone. Twenty milligrams of inaprovaline should restore your space legs.
JANEWAY: I'll check the dampers. Double check your bio-readings. See if there's another explanation.

[Mess hall]

(The doubles match is Paris and Seven versus Kim and Torres. Neelix is the umpire.)
PARIS: Yes!
NEELIX: Point, server.
PARIS: It's all in the wrist.
TORRES: Score?
NEELIX: Nineteen eighteen.
PARIS: Say goodnight, Harry.
(But the ball freezes in mid-air. Seven grabs a handy tricorder.)
KIM: What do you call that shot?
SEVEN: I'm reading temporal distortions.
(The ball resumes its trajectory.)

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: The temporal distortions are fracturing space-time throughout the ship.
JANEWAY: Cause?
TUVOK: Unknown. They appear to be emanating from deck four, section thirty nine.
TORRES: We've already erected forcefields but they're not having much effect. If we can't find a way to stop them, they'll tear the ship apart.
JANEWAY: How much time do we have?
TUVOK: Two hours at most.
JANEWAY: Go to deck four and find out what we're dealing with. Let's see if we can find a way to enhance the forcefields.

[Sickbay]

EMH: An injection a day keeps space sickness away. You try to be funny after treating thirty seven cases of nausea.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Sickbay.
EMH: Go ahead.
JANEWAY [OC]: We've found the source of our epidemic. Temporal distortions.
EMH: I was beginning to suspect some kind of anomaly. I've designed a treatment that seems to be inhibiting the symptoms.
JANEWAY [OC]: Keep me posted.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to the Doctor. I've got a medical emergency in the Mess hall. Ensign Mannus is violently ill.
EMH: On my way. Take over here.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Doctor, shall I whip you up a photonic snack?
EMH: Where's the medical emergency?
NEELIX: I hope you're not referring to this pot roast.
EMH: You called me a few minutes ago. You said Ensign Mannus was ill.
NEELIX: I did?
EMH: Yes.
NEELIX: Ensign Mannus is right over there. He came in an hour ago and he looks perfectly normal.
(Then Mannus collapses.)
EMH: Acute space sickness.
NEELIX: Good thing you were here.
EMH: I wouldn't have been, if you hadn't. Temporal distortions.
NEELIX: Doctor? 
EMH: This is all starting to make sense. In Sickbay, it's fifteen hundred hours forty three minutes, but in the mess hall, it's fifteen thirty six.
NEELIX: Seven minutes earlier.
EMH: I did get a call from you. You just haven't made it yet.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Coffee, black. (doorbell) Come in. Before you say anything, let me remind you what happens to bearers of bad news.
CHAKOTAY: Don't kill the messenger.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, fire.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like these space-time fractures are growing stronger. We're detecting temporal paradoxes throughout the ship.
JANEWAY: Paradoxes?
CHAKOTAY: Internal chronometers show it's oh six hundred on deck nine and oh six hundred five on deck thirteen. Time's passing more quickly in some parts of the ship and slowing down in others.
JANEWAY: Maybe that explains why this coffee tastes like it's three days old.
CHAKOTAY: The same thing's been happening in the mess hall. Food replicated less than an hour ago is already spoiled.
JANEWAY: I've been working on a way to enhance our containment fields, to keep the fractures from spreading,
CHAKOTAY: I'll get a team on it right away. In the meantime, we should evacuate the affected areas.
JANEWAY: See to it.
CHAKOTAY: There's one other problem.
(Several versions of Chakotay appear as he moves.)
CHAKOTAY: Turbolifts two and three are offline so we've been using the Jefferies tube.
(And back to one person. Janeway grabs her tricorder.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: There's a temporal distortion intersecting this room. It's expanding.
CHAKOTAY: Time to test your new containment fields.

[Jefferies tube]

TORRES: This is where they're coming from. I still can't tell what's causing them.
(They open the correct panel.)
TORRES: What is it?
SEVEN: A piece of technology. It's emitting temporal distortions.
TORRES: Why can't I see it?
SEVEN: My ocular implant can detect irregularities in space-time.
TORRES: Torres to bridge. We've found the problem.

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: There's some kind of device in junction beta twenty eight. 
JANEWAY: Beam it off the ship
TUVOK: I can't get a lock.
KIM: The distortions are beginning to demolecularise the hull. Hull breach, ventral section fourteen.
(Ducane and a Relativity crewman beam aboard.)
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a strange reading on deck four.
JANEWAY: What kind of reading?
KIM: It's a chronoton flux, point zero zero three.
CHAKOTAY: More distortions?
KIM: I don't think so.
JANEWAY: Dry dock.
KIM: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: The first time I saw these readings was five years ago. Voyager was still in dry dock. Same readings, same location.
KIM: What caused them?
JANEWAY: I never found out.
CHAKOTAY: We're losing structural integrity.
TUVOK: Multiple breaches, all decks. Emergency systems are failing.
CHAKOTAY: The distortions are ripping us apart. We have to abandon ship.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Proceed to the escape pods and abandon ship. Repeat, abandon ship.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY [OC]: Programme the pods for a heading of one seven eight mark four. We'll rendezvous in orbit of an M class planet at those coordinates. Repeat. All hands proceed to the escape pods and abandon ship.
(Seven meets the two newcomers.)
SEVEN: Identify yourselves.
DUCANE: No time.
(He places a device on her arm and they are beamed away. Voyager goes KaBOOM!)

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Welcome back.
SEVEN: Why have you brought me here?
BRAXTON: For some reason, I always think you'll remember. I'm Captain Braxton. This is Lieutenant Ducane. You're aboard the Federation Timeship Relativity.
SEVEN: I'm no longer in the twenty fourth century?
BRAXTON: No. For you, it's almost five hundred years later. We've brought you here to help us solve a mystery. Someone, we don't know who, has planted a weapon aboard Voyager. It's designed to fracture space-time within a radius of one hundred and fifty metres.
SEVEN: Why do you need me?
DUCANE: Your ocular implant. It can detect disruptions in space-time better than our sensors.
BRAXTON: You're more familiar with Voyager and her crew, less likely to arouse suspicion. So far, you've been quite useful.
SEVEN: So far?
BRAXTON: We've recruited you twice before for this mission. Take a look. A force three temporal disrupter. Your previous attempts to disable it have been unsuccessful.
DUCANE: We're trying to catch the saboteur before he places the weapon on Voyager.
SEVEN: Do you have a suspect?
DUCANE: Not yet.
SEVEN: Do you know when the device was placed?
DUCANE: Not precisely, but we've narrowed the window to a period two years before you joined the crew, when the ship was under attack.
SEVEN: Species three two nine, the Kazon.
DUCANE: Our database indicates Voyager was boarded twice during that period.
SEVEN: The Kazon are an inferior species. They don't possess the technology to create such a complex weapon.
DUCANE: We believe the saboteur infiltrated this time frame because Voyager's shields were down. It was the perfect opportunity to evade the detection.
SEVEN: If I fail, you will recruit me again.
BRAXTON: If necessary. This'll be the third time you're going to be removed from your time frame. If we do it a fourth, there could be certain side effects.
SEVEN: Side effects?
DUCANE: You might experience sensory aphasia. It affects the cerebral cortex and can lead to temporal psychosis.
BRAXTON: But in your case we're hoping third time's a charm, eh?
SEVEN: I'll do my best.  
BRAXTON: Bring her up to date on our protocols.
DUCANE: Aye, sir.
BRAXTON: When you're finished here, meet me in holomatrix one. I've prepared a simulation.
(Later.)
DUCANE: Let's see how much you've assimilated. The Dali paradox.
SEVEN: Also known as the Melting Clock Effect. It refers to a temporal fissure which slows the passage of time to a gradual halt.
DUCANE: The Pogo Paradox.
SEVEN: A causality loop in which interference to prevent an event actually triggers the same event.
DUCANE: Excellent. Can you give me an example?
SEVEN: The Borg once travelled back in time to stop Zefram Cochrane from breaking the warp barrier. They succeeded, but that in turn led the starship Enterprise to intervene. They assisted Cochrane with the flight the Borg was trying to prevent. Causal loop complete.
DUCANE: So, in a way, the Federation owes its existence to the Borg.
SEVEN: You're welcome. The Seven of Nine paradox.
DUCANE: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: How we do know that my presence on Voyager will not alter the timeline?
DUCANE: You know, you've asked me this every time.
SEVEN: What's been your response?
DUCANE: That uncertainty is part of the equation. We don't know what's going to happen.
SEVEN: I don't enjoy uncertainty.
DUCANE: Neither do I. But I trust Captain Braxton's instincts, just as you trust Captain Janeway's.

[Relativity Holomatrix]

(Seven is now in Starfleet uniform.)
BRAXTON: This is a simulation of junction forty nine on Voyager's fourth deck. Thanks to you, we've learned that the temporal disrupter was, and will be, concealed here. I gave up trying to keep my tenses straight years ago.
SEVEN: How will I disarm it?
BRAXTON: You've already tried, unsuccessfully. The weapon's out of phase. You'll have to find the saboteur before he plants it. This will detect any chronoton flux other than your own, and I'm authorising you to use whatever force may be necessary.
SEVEN: Understood.
BRAXTON: One more thing. Watch out for the Janeway Factor.
SEVEN: I am not familiar with that protocol.
BRAXTON: Your Captain has a knack for sticking her nose where it doesn't belong, especially when it comes to time travel.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is quite resourceful. Has it occurred to you that she may be helpful?
BRAXTON: Helpful? That woman has been responsible for three major temporal incursions.
SEVEN: No doubt creating numerous paradoxes.
BRAXTON: And who do you think had to repair the damage? Me. She's reckless. She has no regard for the integrity of the timeline. I asked for her help once. She refused and I ended up stranded in the late twentieth century. Have you ever been to that time frame?
SEVEN: No.
BRAXTON: Well, I don't recommend it. After three decades with those post-industrial barbarians I had to go through extensive rehabilitation before I could return to duty. Avoid contact with Janeway. That's an order.
SEVEN: Yes, sir.

[Relativity]

DUCANE: This will occlude your Borg implants. Ready?
SEVEN: Yes.
BRAXTON: We have a saying in our line of work. There's no time like the past.
DUCANE: Raise shields. Time frame, stardate 49123.5621. Delta quadrant. Spatial coordinates, twenty one alpha prime by nine three six zeta. Target, USS Voyager.

[2372 Corridor]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: All hands to battle stations. We're under attack. Repeat, all hands to battle stations.
(Seven is beamed in after some crew run past armed with rifles.)

[2372 Bridge]

JANEWAY: Return fire.
PARIS: Dropping spatial charges.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
TUVOK: Shields down to twenty percent.
CHAKOTAY: Another Kazon ship is approaching.

[2372 Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Engineering. We need warp engines.
TORRES: I can't give them to you. Not until I've repaired the containment generator.
JANEWAY [OC]: Time?
TORRES: I'll need ten minutes at least.

[2372 Bridge]

KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a strange reading on deck four.
JANEWAY: What kind of reading?
KIM: It's a chronoton flux, point zero zero three.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what's causing it?
KIM: Not yet.
TUVOK: It could be random interference from Kazon weapons fire.
JANEWAY: I don't think so. I've seen these readings before.

[2372 Jefferies tube]

(Seven opens the panel.)
SEVEN: There's no sign of the weapon.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Any uninvited guests?

[2372 Jefferies tube]

SEVEN: Not yet.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The lead vessel's been disabled. The others are regrouping.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, status.
TORRES [OC]: Warp drive's online, but the containment field's still unstable. Warp two is the best I can give you.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take it. Engage.
PARIS: They're not pursuing.
JANEWAY: Dry dock.
KIM: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: The first time I saw these readings was over two years ago when Voyager was in dry dock. Same readings, same location.
KIM: What caused them?
JANEWAY: I never found out. The signal vanished before we could isolate it. Erect a level ten forcefield around that section.
CHAKOTAY: Is this really the time to be chasing sensor ghosts?
JANEWAY: Something tells me this is more than a coincidence. Seal off deck four. Tuvok, you're with me.

[2372 Jefferies tube]

SEVEN: They've erected forcefields around my location. I may have been detected. How shall I proceed? Lieutenant, respond.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: What's wrong?
DUCANE: The forcefields are blocking our transmissions.
BRAXTON: Compensate. Seven of Nine, report.
SEVEN [OC]: Relativity, are you there?
DUCANE: It's no use, sir. She can't hear us.

[2372 Corridor]

(Seven walks into a forcefield either side of the Jefferies tube access junction..)
JANEWAY: I don't believe we've been introduced, Ensign.
SEVEN: Lower the forcefield.
JANEWAY: I stand corrected. We have met. Utopia

[Relativity]

JANEWAY [OC]: Planitia, the briefing room. You told me it

[2372 Corridor]

JANEWAY: Was efficient.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Janeway.
SEVEN [OC]: You've

[2372 Corridor]

SEVEN: Mistaken me for someone else.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't think so.

[Relativity]

JANEWAY [OC]: So, here you are, two years later

[2372 Corridor]

JANEWAY: On the other side of the galaxy. Imagine that.
SEVEN: You're preventing me from completing a vital mission.
JANEWAY: Who are you, and what are you doing on my ship?

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Don't say anything
DUCANE: She can't hear you, sir.
SEVEN [OC]: My designation is irrelevant, But I assure you I have no hostile

[2372 Corridor]

SEVEN: Intentions.
JANEWAY: Somehow, I don't find that very comforting. Are you working with the Kazon?
SEVEN: No, I am not.
TUVOK: I'm detecting biomechanical implants. They have a Borg signature.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Scan the vicinity for Borg ships.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Did you say Borg?
JANEWAY: Do it.
SEVEN: You will find none.
JANEWAY: Then how did you get here?
SEVEN: I'm no longer Borg.
JANEWAY: Then who are you?
SEVEN: I can't answer your questions.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Good.
JANEWAY [OC]: Why not?

[2372 Corridor]

SEVEN: It would be a violation of the Temporal Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: You're from another time?
SEVEN: Yes.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: No.
JANEWAY [OC]: Who sent you?

[2372 Corridor]

SEVEN: I can't tell you that. I would be risking damage to the timeline.
JANEWAY: I don't care if history itself comes unravelled, I want to know

[Relativity]

JANEWAY [OC]: Why you're on my ship.

[2372 Corridor]

(Seven's tricorder beeps.)
TUVOK: What's that?
SEVEN: You must release me.
TUVOK: Why?
SEVEN: Voyager is in grave danger.
JANEWAY: So we've noticed.
SEVEN: Not from the Kazon. From an act of sabotage. I've been sent here to stop it. The intruder has already boarded the ship. Please, your lives depend on it.
JANEWAY: You're not going anywhere until you tell me what's happening.
SEVEN: My name is Seven of Nine. I'm a member of your crew. Rather, I will be a member of your crew.

[Relativity]

SEVEN [OC]: I've travelled back in time to try to prevent a disaster that will destroy Voyager.
BRAXTON: Get her out of there.
DUCANE: I'm trying.

[2372 Corridor]

JANEWAY: Let's see if I've got this straight. You're a Borg drone attempting to prevent a disaster that won't occur for another three years?
SEVEN: Three years six months and two days.
JANEWAY: Does this make any sense to you?
TUVOK: Like most time paradoxes, it's implausible, but not necessarily illogical.
SEVEN: Captain, when you take me from the Borg you are going to tell me that part of being human is learning to trust. Trust me now.
JANEWAY: Lower the forcefield.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Braxton. Respond.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Stay where you are. We're pulling you out.
SEVEN [OC]: That would be unwise. I am pursuing the saboteur

[2372 Corridor]

SEVEN: With Captain Janeway's assistance.

[Relativity]

DUCANE: Tempus fugit.
BRAXTON: Proceed.

[2372 Corridor]

SEVEN: Yes, sir. The intruder is in junction fifty two beta.
JANEWAY: Take the starboard hatch.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]

(They discover the saboteur, dressed in a Starfleet uniform.)
SEVEN: Captain Braxton. Lower the temporal disruptor.
BRAXTON: It's armed. I'll activate it. Lower your weapons.
(Janeway nods, and they do.)
BRAXTON: Janeway.
JANEWAY: Have we met?
BRAXTON: Too many times, but you wouldn't remember. They haven't occurred yet.
BRAXTON [OC]: Seven of Nine, report.
SEVEN: I have located the saboteur.
BRAXTON [OC]: Who is it?
SEVEN: It's you,

[Relativity]

SEVEN [OC]: Captain Braxton.
BRAXTON: Me?

[2372 Jefferies tube]

BRAXTON: More accurately, a future you.

[Relativity]

FUTURE BRAXTON [OC]: Now let me complete our mission.
BRAXTON: Our mission? I don't know what you're talking about.
FUTURE BRAXTON [OC]: Listen

[2372 Jefferies tube]

BRAXTON: very carefully. The circumstances of your life are going to change in the next few years. You'll be sent into rehabilitation again, forced to retire, and it's all because of Voyager.
SEVEN: Captain, I believe your future self is suffering from temporal psychosis.
BRAXTON: Well of course I am, you pedantic drone. The only way for me, for us, to recover is to obliterate Voyager from the timeline. That way, none of the events that caused this illness will have occurred.
JANEWAY: What events?
BRAXTON: Thirty years of exile on twentieth century Earth. The temporal inversion in the Takara sector. Three violations that I had to repair.

[Relativity]

BRAXTON: Can you get a lock on him?
DUCANE: Negative. He's activated a dispersal node. I should say, you've activated a dispersal node.
BRAXTON: Don't be absurd. I have no wish to sabotage Voyager.
DUCANE: Not yet.
BRAXTON: Remodulate the transporters. Find a way to cut through the interference. I gave you an order, Lieutenant.
DUCANE: I'm sorry, sir. I'm taking command of this vessel, and I'm relieving you of duty for crimes you're going to commit.
BRAXTON: I haven't done anything.
DUCANE: Seven of Nine

[2372 Jefferies tube]

DUCANE [OC]: Apprehend Braxton.
(Tuvok opens the hatch behind Braxton.)
BRAXTON: No.
(Braxton beams himself away with the device.)
SEVEN: Relativity, he's escaped.

[Relativity]

DUCANE: I'm tracking him. He's travelled to another time frame, two years earlier.
SEVEN [OC]: Transport me to those coordinates.
DUCANE: That would be your fourth jump.
SEVEN [OC]: I am aware of the risks.
DUCANE: Stand by.

[2372 Jefferies tube]

SEVEN: Thank you for your assistance.

[2371 Corridor]

(Seven is beamed in, and staggers briefly.)
PATTERSON: There's still some work to be done but, er, once the sawdust clears I think you'll be impressed. Voyager may not be as big as a Galaxy class ship but she's quick
(Janeway pulls Patterson aside as Braxton runs through.)
SEVEN: Take cover!
(Seven fires and misses.)
JANEWAY: Security, report to deck four, section twelve. Erect forcefields around all access points. Is this part of the tour?
(Braxton runs into a forcefield. Seven can see him, but she is not well. He beams himself away.)

[Relativity]

SEVEN [OC]: I've lost him.
DUCANE: He's still on Voyager

[2371 Corridor]

DUCANE [OC]: But he's gone five years ahead.
SEVEN: Initiate transport.
(Seven is beamed away as Janeway and Patterson arrive.)

[Mess hall]

PARIS: Yes!
NEELIX: Point, server.
PARIS: It's all in the wrist.
TORRES: Score?
NEELIX: Nineteen eighteen.
(Braxton runs in.)
PARIS: Who are you?
(Future Seven staggers in and shoots Braxton.) 
PARIS: Bridge, intruder alert, deck two.
(Braxton staggers, then she shoots his tricorder out of his hand before collapsing against the wall. Braxton grabs his tricorder and runs out.)
SEVEN: Explain.
FUTURE SEVEN: No time. You must apprehend him. He's trying to destroy Voyager.
DUCANE [OC]: Seven of Nine, status.
FUTURE SEVEN: I am incapacitated. It's sensory aphasia.
DUCANE [OC]: Stand by.

[Relativity]

DUCANE: I'm pulling you out.

[Mess hall]

FUTURE SEVEN: Stop him. Your future depends on it.
(She is beamed away.)

[Relativity Bridge]

DUCANE: Braxton?
SEVEN: I disabled his tricorder. He's trapped there. Seven of Nine is pursuing him. She is efficient. She will succeed.
DUCANE: Let's hope so, because we've run out of options.

[Corridor]

(Braxton is cornered by Janeway, Security, and Seven. Seven takes the temporal disrupter and disables it.)
BRAXTON: You again!
JANEWAY: I don't believe we've met, Ensign. No, I'm wrong, we have met. Captain Braxton.
BRAXTON: Not anymore. I've lost my rank thanks to you.
FUTURE SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to Seven of Nine. What's your status?
SEVEN: We've apprehended Braxton. How shall we proceed?
FUTURE SEVEN [OC]: Stand by.

[Relativity Transporter pad]

(They beam the saboteur aboard.)
BRAXTON: Long time no see.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Are you all right, Seven? 
SEVEN: I believe we've just prevented Voyager's destruction.
JANEWAY: Would you care to explain how you
(Janeway is beamed away.)

[Relativity]

JANEWAY: The Timeship Relativity.
SEVEN: We need your help.
DUCANE: This Seven of Nine stopped Braxton, but she created several temporal incursions along the way. She instigated a phaser fight at Utopia Planitia. She was seen by you and Lieutenant Tuvok two years before she joined your crew. And she interacted with her past self in front of fifteen crew members at a Ping-Pong tournament approximately six minutes ago. Your time frame, of course.
JANEWAY: Of course.
DUCANE: Needless to say, we need to clean up the timeline. Someone must go back to the beginning and prevent the chain of events from occurring in the first place.
SEVEN: I can't make another jump without damaging myself.
JANEWAY: I get the feeling I'm about to be drafted.
DUCANE: In exchange for leniency, Captain Braxton informed us of the precise moment he boarded Voyager to plant the weapon. We'll be sending you to stop him. Tell her.
BRAXTON: Deck four, section thirty eight. I'll stumble over a wounded crewmember. That will be your chance to capture me.
DUCANE: Don't miss it, or we'll have to do this all over again.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute, let me get this straight. I'm going back in time to stop Braxton. But you already have him.
DUCANE: And there's a third one in our brig. I arrested him earlier today. But, don't worry. They'll all be reintegrated in time for the trial.
JANEWAY: And Seven?
DUCANE: Oh, I assure you, when all this is over there'll be just one Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's get started before my headache gets any worse.

[2372 Corridor]

(Torres runs up to short-haired Janeway.)
TORRES: Captain, a Kazon torpedo just blew out the containment generator. Do you want me to reroute emergency power or take the warp core offline?
JANEWAY: Use your best judgment.
TORRES: I thought you were on your way to the bridge.
JANEWAY: I have to take care of something first. Now get moving, Lieutenant.
(She reaches the place where a crewman is lying in the corridor, and hides.)
PAST JANEWAY: Send damage control teams to decks nine through fourteen. Seal the breaches if you can. I'll be on the Bridge. Keep me informed.
(Bun of Steel Janeway marches past.)
CREWWOMAN: Yes, ma'am.
(Braxton beams in. A Kazon weapons hit to Voyager makes him stagger. His foot catches the crewman's elbow and he falls to his knees.)
BRAXTON: Oh!
(Janeway grabs him, phaser to his throat.)
JANEWAY: Come here often?

[Relativity]

DUCANE: Incursion factor point zero zero three six. It's better than I expected.
JANEWAY: Glad we could lend a hand. When do we go home?
DUCANE: You'll both be returned to your time frame. You'll be reintegrated with the other Seven of Nine. Since none of your time jumps were to your foreseeable future, only the past, I see no reason to resequence your memory engrams. But remember the Temporal Prime Directive. Discuss your experiences with no one.
JANEWAY: Understood.
DUCANE: Oh, Captain. Braxton was right about one thing. Voyager shows up on our sensors far too often. Try to avoid time travel.
JANEWAY: See you in the twenty fourth century.
SEVEN: I look forward to it, or should I say, backward?
JANEWAY: Don't get started.


S5 E25
Warhead
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 19 May 1999

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Show mercy.
NEELIX: Your people have a saying. Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me. In other words, your credit's no good here.
PARIS: I'll pay you back double with next month's replicator rations.
NEELIX: That's what you said when I let you replicate all those pork rinds for your monster movie marathon.
PARIS: Let me put it another way. This is a life and death situation.
NEELIX: Hyperbole won't help.
PARIS: I'm not exaggerating. This is the anniversary of my first date with B'Elanna.
NEELIX: And you forgot all about it?
PARIS: Yes. And if I don't come through with some kind of romantic dinner
NEELIX: All right, you've made your case.
PARIS: Neelix, you're a saint. Okay, that'll be one bottle of Mouton Rothschild, a 2342 if it's in the database. A Terrelian pheasant, steamed asparagus, and a single rose.
NEELIX: Where do you want it?
PARIS: You can send the food requisition to B'Elanna's replicator, the wine and the flower I'll take with me. I can't show up empty-handed.
(Kim enters.)
KIM: Neelix, how about a pot of coffee while you're at it?
NEELIX: Coming right up.
KIM: Flowers and wine?
PARIS: Ah, anniversary. Coffee?
KIM: Bridge duty. I've got eight hours ahead of me.
NEELIX: Sitting in the big chair again?
KIM: Fourth night in a row.
PARIS: You're not fooling anyone.
KIM: Excuse me?
PARIS: You love these night shifts. Your chance to play Captain.
KIM: I'm not playing. This is an opportunity to get command experience. You might put in for some yourself.
PARIS: Oh, what's the point of trying to compete with an ambitious upstart like you? Just promise me one thing. When you reach the top, you'll remember all the little people you climbed over to get there. You won't make them work night shifts?

[Bridge]

KIM: Helm, status?
(He has a blonde lady pilot.)
JENKINS: Same as it was twenty minutes ago.
KIM: Refresh my memory.
JENKINS: Current speed warp six point three, heading oh twenty one mark two. Permission to speak freely, sir?
KIM: Granted.
JENKINS: We're on the night shift. Relax.
KIM: One of these days you'll get the call to take the bridge, and maybe then you'll understand the burden of command.
(Beep!)
KIM: Report.
JENKINS: It's an automated distress call.
KIM: Origin?
JENKINS: A class M planet, range point seven three light years, bearing two six one mark one five.
KIM: That would be a significant course change.
JENKINS: The burden of command is on your shoulders, sir. Of course, we could always wake Commander Chakotay.
KIM: No. Alter course.
(They arrive at the planet.)
KIM: Open a channel. This is Ensign Kim of the Starship Voyager. Can we be of assistance?
JENKINS: I'm not picking up on any lifesigns. I guess they didn't make it.
KIM: There could be any number of reasons why we're not detecting lifesigns. We'll have to go down there and take a look. I'll inform the Commander. Oh, Jenkins? The bridge is yours.

[Corridor]

KIM: I hope I made the right decision.
CHAKOTAY: About changing course or waking me up?
KIM: Sorry, sir, but I thought
CHAKOTAY: Relax, Harry, you did the right thing on both counts. Hey, why don't you lead the away team? I'll monitor your progress from the bridge.
KIM: Yes, sir.
(A short time later, Kim has got his equipment for the away team.)
EMH: The distress call was automated?
KIM: That's right. I'm hoping whoever sent it is still alive.
EMH: Who's leading the mission?
KIM: You're looking at him.
EMH: Really?
KIM: Problem?
EMH: No. I just thought, given the circumstances, a new planet, unknown hazards, that Commander Chakotay or Tuvok would be in charge.
KIM: I am a senior officer, Doc. I've been on this ship for five years. I think I can handle an away mission.
EMH: I certainly didn't mean any offence.

[Transporter room]

KIM: None taken.
EMH: Of course, having me on the team will certainly compensate for any lack of experience on your part.
(They are joined by a burly security guard.)
KIM: Energise.

[Planet surface]

(The atmosphere has an orange tinge. They are amongst sheer cliffs.)
EMH: Are you sure these are the right coordinates?
KIM: Positive.
EMH: Apparently, whoever sent the distress call was rescued.
KIM: Maybe, but as long as we're here we should make a thorough search. Spread out.
EMH: Ensign.
(The EMH has found a device half buried into a rock wall.)
KIM: This is the source of the distress call.
EMH: What is it?
KIM: I don't know. Paratrinic shielding, a dense energy matrix, bioneural circuitry.
EMH: Bioneural?
(The device lights up.)
KIM: Whoa, back off. This could be dangerous.
EMH: No, wait. It's speaking to us.
KIM: Speaking?
EMH: In duotronic algorithms. Hold on. My translation matrix is interpreting. It says it's injured. It needs our help. It's asking why it can't see, or feel its arms and legs. It's terrified. Can you identify yourself? It's saying that its memory has been damaged. It doesn't remember its name. Don't worry. We're going to help you. Crewman Lang will remain with you.
KIM: What do you think? An artificial intelligence?
EMH: One that doesn't seem to realise its artificial.
KIM: Maybe we should tell it the truth. try to jog its memory.
EMH: No. I don't want to risk psychological trauma.
KIM: Psychological trauma? Doc, this is a machine.
EMH: One which is confused and asking for our help. We should beam it aboard.
KIM: Not until we know what we're dealing with. Away mission protocols dictate that we
EMH: Morality dictates that we help. It may not be flesh and blood, but it's clearly in distress.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Make way for the day shift.
JANEWAY: How's he doing?
CHAKOTAY: Well, let's see. I haven't heard from him in almost five minutes so he should be checking in right about
KIM [OC]: Away team to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Now.
JANEWAY: That's our Harry. If I were you, I'd watch out for your job. Go ahead, Ensign.
KIM [OC]: We found the source of the distress call. It's some

[Planet surface]

KIM: Kind of artificial intelligence, badly damaged. The Doctor thinks we should beam it aboard.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: You're in charge of the away mission, Ensign. What do you think?

[Planet surface]

KIM: Well, I think we should help it if we can. But as a precaution, I recommend sealing off an Engineering bay with a level ten force field and

[Bridge]

KIM [OC]: Beaming it directly there.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Give us a few minutes.

[Planet surface]

EMH: We're going to transport you back to our ship. I'm Voyager's Emergency Medical Hologram. A projection of light and force fields guided by an optronic computer programme. No.  Technically speaking, I suppose I'm not a real person.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: How's our patient?
TORRES: Complicated. It uses bioneural circuitry to mimic humanoid synaptic functions.
KIM: But its memory core is damaged. It's suffering from a technological form of amnesia.
JANEWAY: Any theories as to what it might be?
TORRES: It could be a probe, or a communications device.
EMH: Whoever our friend is, he wasn't alone. He claims to have been travelling with a companion.
JANEWAY: If there's another one down there, it might give us a few answers. I'll be in Astrometrics scanning the surface. Give our guest my regards.
EMH: Of course, Captain. Lower the containment field.
(The EMH approaches the device.)
EMH: How are you? Well, that's an interesting question. Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Torres are attempting to repair your damaged circuitry. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. You're not an organic being. You're technological. You're an artificial intelligence embedded in a machine of some kind. No, there's no mistake. We believe the damage you suffered in the crash is causing your confusion. Look at it this way. You and I have something in common. Just because we're not organic beings doesn't mean we're in any way inferior. Well, you're metallic, over a metre in length, cylindrical. Oh, you're quite sleek, actually. You're welcome.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I'm detecting no further technology on the planet surface.
JANEWAY: Maybe the second device was destroyed when it crashed. Scan for metallic particulates consistent with our friend in Engineering.
SEVEN: There are minute traces scattered across the northern continent.
JANEWAY: Isolate. An impact crater.
SEVEN: It spans a radius of two hundred kilometres.
JANEWAY: And look at this. Heavy concentrations of radiogenic decay in the crater walls. And the fracture gradients are consistent with a highly focused explosion.
SEVEN: Evidently, we've discovered its function.
JANEWAY: A weapon of mass destruction.

[Briefing room]

EMH: I understand your concerns, but the device hasn't shown itself to be hostile.
TORRES: Not yet. But it's only a matter of time before it puts the pieces together.
EMH: All the more reason we should talk to it, explain our concerns. Ask for help in defusing its explosive components.
CHAKOTAY: If it's programmed to detonate, there's no telling how it will react.
JANEWAY: Agreed, We have to neutralise the threat now. Suggestions?
SEVEN: Transport the device off the ship and destroy it before it harms anyone.
EMH: Seven, this is a sentient being we're talking about.
SEVEN: Very well. Return it to the surface and deploy a warning buoy to alert other vessels.
EMH: I refuse to believe our only options are to kill it or abandon it.
TORRES: What if we could separate the bioneural circuitry from the explosive?
JANEWAY: Take the weapon offline but salvage the intelligence.
KIM: They're fully integrated. Where would we store the intelligence once we shut the device down?
EMH: The answer's obvious. Download it's synaptic patterns to a holographic matrix, like mine.
CHAKOTAY: Then what?
EMH: Try to find out where it came from, and return it to it's people.
SEVEN: The device is extremely complex. One error and we'd risk detonation.
EMH: Saving life often entails risk.
JANEWAY: Harry, B'Elanna, assist the Doctor.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: At the first sign of danger, we transport it off the ship. Understood?
EMH: Understood.

[Engineering]

(Two crewmen are carrying the device.)
EMH: I quite understand. I wouldn't like being carried around, either. Of course you are, who wouldn't be? We're taking you to Sickbay. Because we're better equipped to help you there.

[Turbolift]

EMH: Deck five. We're going to transfer your intelligence to a holo-matrix. You should be pleased. In a little while, you're going to be walking around just like me.

[Corridor]

EMH: I'm not certain. Ensign Kim's configuring your physical parameters as we speak. I'm sure you'll be quite handsome.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Are we ready to proceed?
TORRES: Whenever you are.
EMH: Don't be alarmed. We have to access some of your systems to enable the transfer. He says he wants to know exactly what you're doing, as you do it.
TORRES: This is a delicate procedure. I won't be able to concentrate if I have to give a blow-by-blow description.
EMH: You'll have to forgive Lieutenant Torres. She's an excellent engineer. Unfortunately, she doesn't share my bedside manner.
TORRES: Harry, would you mind?
KIM: Yeah, sure. Er, well, first we're going to be setting up an active interlink between you and the holo-systems. Er, now, to do that, er, we're going to take your programme offline while we resequence your bioneural circuitry.
EMH: He says he can't allow you to shut him down.
TORRES: I'm sorry, but there's no other way.
(An alarm sounds in the device.)
TORRES:  It's arming itself. The detonation sequence has begun.
KIM: Sickbay to bridge. The device is going to detonate.

[Bridge]

KIM [OC]: Beam it off the ship.
CHAKOTAY: We've lost the transporter lock. 
JANEWAY: Talk to it, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Please, you're going to destroy yourself, and us.
KIM: Detonation in twenty seconds.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: B'Elanna, send an EM pulse through it's power matrix. Maybe you can short it out.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: I'm on it. 
KIM: Fifteen seconds.
EMH: Please disarm yourself. We're just trying to help you.
KIM: Ten seconds. Nine.
TORRES: Initiating the pulse.
KIM: Six. Five.
TORRES: Now.
KIM: It worked.

[Bridge]

KIM [OC]: We shut it down, Captain.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: You shouldn't have done that.
TORRES: I know you've gotten a little attached to this thing, but.
BOMB/EMH: You lied.
TORRES: What are you talking about?
BOMB/EMH: You said you were trying to transfer my neural patterns, but you were really trying to shut me down.
TORRES: You're the artificial intelligence.
KIM: It used the interlink to commandeer the Doctor's programme.
TORRES: Sickbay to bridge. Captain, respond. He's tapped into the ship's systems, deactivated the comm.
KIM: He's locked us in, too. 
BOMB/EMH: You tried to destroy me.
KIM: We were only trying to disarm you.
BOMB/EMH: I'm a weapon.
KIM: Yes.
BOMB/EMH: Why didn't you tell me?
KIM: It was a precaution. We were afraid you might be dangerous.
TORRES: Obviously, we were right.
BOMB/EMH: I couldn't let you destroy me. I have to complete my mission.
KIM: You remember it now?
BOMB/EMH: Yes. I'm a long range tactical armour unit. I've been deployed by my people. They're facing a terrible threat. A hostile species. My companion unit was destroyed, but I will reach my target. Your ship will take me there.
KIM: Look, we'll try and contact your people. If you could tell us who they are.
BOMB/EMH: I must resume my mission!

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The weapon's been rearmed.
JANEWAY: Security?
CHAKOTAY: They still can't gain access to Sickbay, or any part of deck five, for that matter.
JANEWAY: Get a transporter lock on our people. We'll jettison the whole damn section if we have to.
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: I wouldn't recommend that, Captain. If you try to stop me again, I'll detonate. Your ship and everyone on it will be destroyed.
I'm transferring a new heading to the helm. You'll proceed to the coordinates at maximum velocity.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: He's gone.
PARIS: He's directing us to a system two point three light years from here.
JANEWAY: Is that your home?
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: It's my target. The course I've plotted bypasses enemy minefields. Don't deviate from it. Your ship won't be harmed. Once we've reached the system, you'll transport me to my target.
JANEWAY: We won't help you wage war. This crew has a Prime Directive that forbids us to interfere in the affairs of other species.
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: You've already interfered.
JANEWAY: We were trying to help you.
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: Until you discovered my true nature. Then you tried to deactivate me.
JANEWAY: Just your explosive components, not you.
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: There's no distinction. I am what I am. Now alter course or I'll detonate!
JANEWAY: If you do that, you'll never reach your target, will you?
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: I am programmed to take whatever measures are necessary to obtain my objective. Failing that, I'm to consider anyone who tries to stop me an enemy. Now alter course, and transfer your sensors to me so I can monitor your compliance.
JANEWAY: Release my crewmen from Sickbay first.
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: I'm not programmed to negotiate. They'll remain were they are.
JANEWAY: Lay in the course, Mister Paris. Transfer sensors to Sickbay.
BOMB/EMH [on viewscreen]: A sound tactical decision, Captain.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Assemble the staff. We're going to find a way to outsmart a smart bomb.
(A little later, the brainstorming has begun.)
PARIS: If we could shut down the force fields around Sickbay, I could get a transporter lock on it.
SEVEN: Even if you were successful, we can't beam it far enough from the ship to escape the blast.
CHAKOTAY: She's right. Our best option is to disarm it.
PARIS: Good luck. It's got an internal sensor array. If we try so much as to loosen a screw, boom.
(Neelix enters with a piece of tech.)
NEELIX: Commander, I think you should take a look at this. It's a power node I used to enhance the replicator system. I acquired it last week on a trading mission. It has transkinetic energy regulators and bioneural control circuitry. Remind you of anything?
CHAKOTAY: Our friend in Sickbay. 
NEELIX: I didn't make the connection at first, but when I overheard a few of the engineers talking about the weapon I went back and I checked the schematics on this. It's the same technology.
CHAKOTAY: Who did you acquire it from?
NEELIX: A merchant named Onquanii.
SEVEN: Did he say where he got it?
NEELIX: No, but he seemed eager to trade. Maybe he'd tell us if we made it worth his while.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for his vessel. If you find him, send an encoded message. Tell him about our problem.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]

(Whispering. The Bomb/EMH is in the Medical lab on the other side of the Doctor's office.)
TORRES: If we could tap into the holo-projectors without his knowing it we might be able to shut him down.
KIM: He changed all the access codes. The second we try to decrypt them, he'll restart the detonation sequence.
TORRES: Do you have a better idea?
KIM: Yeah. Let the Captain handle it. The last thing anyone needs is my opinion.
TORRES: This is no time to be feeling sorry for yourself.
KIM: Chakotay lets me make a command decision. What do I do? I beam a talking bomb on board.
TORRES: The first time I commanded an away mission, I led my people into a cave that I thought was a Cardassian military installation. Turned out I'd mistaken unstable mineral deposits for weapons signatures. There was a rock slide and we were stuck there for three days.
KIM: What did you do?
TORRES: We dug ourselves out with our bare hands. Where are you going?
KIM: To dig us out.

[Medical lab]

KIM: You don't have to do this, you know.
BOMB/EMH: It's what I was programmed for.
KIM: You're a sentient being. You don't have to be a slave to your programming. Look at the Doctor.
BOMB/EMH: He's a tool. A holographic puppet.
KIM: That puppet saved your life. If it weren't for him you'd still be damaged and alone on that planet. He's the one that convinced me to beam you aboard. And when we discovered what you were, and some people wanted to destroy you, the Doctor defended your right to exist.
BOMB/EMH: What's your point?
KIM: Even though he was only programmed to be a doctor, he's become more than that. He's made friends, he's piloted a starship, he even sings.
BOMB/EMH: Despite all of his achievements, did he ever stop being a doctor?
KIM: No, but
BOMB/EMH: And I can't stop being a weapon.

[Doctor's office]

KIM: Look at yourself. You're already much more than that. You've got a body now, eyes to see with. The second you detonate, that'll all be over.
BOMB/EMH: That's the nature of what I am.
KIM: It doesn't have to be. We can give you your own holo-matrix. You can exist for as long as you want. Accomplish anything you set your mind to.
BOMB/EMH: The only thing I want to accomplish is the destruction of my target.
KIM: What is your target?
BOMB/EMH: A military installation on Salinia Prime. Grid eleven, vector nine three four one.
KIM: Tell me about it. Who's the enemy?
BOMB/EMH: A ruthless, violent race that's threatening to destroy my people.
KIM: What else do you know about them? What's their planet like? Are there forests, wildlife, schools for the children of this violent race?
BOMB/EMH: I'm not programmed with superfluous data.
KIM: Well, lucky for you. You're aboard Voyager now, and you have access to our scanners. Why don't we take a closer look at your target?
(Kim calls up the long range scan.)
BOMB/EMH: A military installation, as I told you.
KIM: But it's manned.
BOMB/EMH: By soldiers.
KIM: Who are going to suffer because of you. Remember when you were suffering, blind and paralysed? Do you really want to make others go through that?
BOMB/EMH: I have a duty to protect my people. I will not betray them. Now get out before I'm forced to harm you.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: Nice try.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I'm reading a subspace surge off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a cloaked ship.
NEELIX: It could be him. Onquanii travels in a cloaked vessel.
PARIS: We're being hailed. Audio only.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.
ONQUANII [OC]: Voyager! Good to see you again.
NEELIX: And you, sir.
ONQUANII [OC]: I received your message. Have you an intelligent weapon in your possession?
NEELIX: Actually, we're in its possession. We're being held hostage. Do you know anything about this weapon?
ONQUANII [OC]: If I'm correct, it was created by a species named the Druoda. I've studied their technology. Bring me aboard. I can assist you.

[Engineering]

(This alien has high forehead ridges and no lips.)
ONQUANII: You've deactivated your comm. system?
JANEWAY: And reinforced the shielding in this section. We won't be overheard.
ONQUANII: I'd have more faith in your security precautions if you weren't already at the mercy of this weapon.
CHAKOTAY: We didn't know what it was when we brought it aboard.
ONQUANII: This particular series has a class eleven intelligence factor. It's warp-capable, fully armoured, self-guiding. It has a maximum range of eighty light years. It can fly through an ion storm or an armada of hostile ships and still find its target.
JANEWAY: Charming. How do I get it off my ship?
ONQUANII: You can't. But I can. My transporter system employs a dampening field which disables the detonator until my engineers can disarm it.
JANEWAY: That's a generous offer. Mind if I ask what you expect in return?
ONQUANII: The device itself.
JANEWAY: I'm not about to hand over a weapon of mass destruction to someone I just met.
ONQUANII: Oh, my business is salvage, not war. I've no intention of deploying it.
CHAKOTAY: But you might sell it to someone who does. I imagine you'd stand to make quite a profit.
ONQUANII: I can make more profit by selling off it's components. The energy matrix alone can power a fleet of starships. And its intelligence core, properly reprogrammed, can assist in a variety of things, from terraforming to planetary weather control.
JANEWAY: All right. You can have the weapon, as long as we keep the energy matrix. That way we can be sure no one ever deploys it.
ONQUANII: I'm afraid that's unacceptable. The energy matrix is one of the most valuable components.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, it's not open for negotiation.
NEELIX: We could offer you a few dilithium crystals in compensation.
ONQUANII: That matrix worth a thousand dilithium crystals.
NEELIX: What if we threw in a plasma manifold?
ONQUANII: I want the entire weapon, or it remains here. Captain?
CHAKOTAY: You seem awfully intent for someone only interested in salvage.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to waste your time. We'll have to find another way to solve our problem.
ONQUANII: I wish you luck. (He beams himself away.)
NEELIX: Sorry, Captain. I thought it would help.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY: Bridge, report.
PARIS [OC]: The alien vessel has opened fire. We've lost weapons and shields.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Sickbay to Captain, what's happening?
JANEWAY [OC]: We're under attack.
BOMB/EMH: How many ships?
JANEWAY [OC]: One, off the port bow.
BOMB/EMH: Return fire.
JANEWAY [OC]: We can't. Check your sensors. Our weapons are offline.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The forcefields around Sickbay are destabilising. He's trying to get a transporter lock on the weapon.
JANEWAY: Remodulate the shields.
CHAKOTAY: No effect.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: What are you doing?
(The Bomb/EMH is pressing buttons on the weapon.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The weapon's sending an antimatter surge back through the transporter beam.
(Onquanii's ship goes KaBOOM.)
CHAKOTAY: They've been destroyed.
JANEWAY: That wasn't necessary.
BOMB/EMH [OC]: They were an enemy.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Maintain course.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: I've studied the weapon's schematics. My nanoprobes can be adapted to disable its bioneural circuitry. However, I would need direct access to its primary control port.
JANEWAY: That means getting you into Sickbay without arousing suspicion.
CHAKOTAY: We could access the holomatrix controls above Sickbay, disrupt the Doctor's programme long enough for Seven to inject the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: How much time would you need?
SEVEN: Approximately twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Run a long range scan on that subspace minefield it warned us about. Calculate their explosive yield, what kind of damage they might do to the ship.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got in mind?
JANEWAY: I have a feeling we're about to run into some unexpected trouble.
(A fleet of warheads just like the one on board detects Voyager. They go to warp.)

[Briefing room]

SEVEN: We've analysed the alien minefield and calculated the effect it would have on Voyager. 
PARIS: I think I can simulated the explosions with a well-timed disruption to the inertial dampers. Of course, asking me to give you a bumpy ride is like asking a virtuoso to sing off-key.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure you'll manage. The weapon has access to our sensors. How do we make sure it won't catch on?
SEVEN: We've reconfigured the sensor array to send it false telemetry. It will believe we're navigating a minefield.
PARIS: At least long enough for us to get Seven to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: How?
PARIS: Medical emergency.
SEVEN: I intend to suffer third-degree plasma burns during our encounter with the mines.
NEELIX: That's where I come in. Chief Cosmetics officer, at your service.
CHAKOTAY: Another hidden talent, Neelix?
NEELIX: I know my way around a dermal regenerator. I should be able to simulate a convincing wound.
CHAKOTAY: Okay, we get her inside. Then what?
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok will be in position to disrupt the Doctor's programme. Once that happens, I will inject the nanoprobes and disable the weapon.
CHAKOTAY: I'll inform the Captain. Get started.
PARIS: Do well on this mission, Neelix, and maybe the Captain will promote you to Senior Beautician.

[Doctor's office]

(Torres and Kim are in the office. The Bomb/EMH comes to the doorway.)
BOMB/EMH: Assist me.
KIM: With what?
BOMB/EMH: I'm trying to identify the malfunction that caused me to crash, but several of my memory files are still damaged. Restore them.
TORRES: We tried helping it before and look where that got us.
KIM: When taken captive by a hostile force, seek out any opportunity to engage the assailant. Didn't you ever read the officers' manual? Section one twenty six.
TORRES: I don't think Starfleet diplomacy is going to work this time. If we cooperate, we'll be giving it the advantage.
KIM: If there's even a chance that we can convince it to change its mind
TORRES: It's a bomb, Harry.
KIM: A sentient bomb.
BOMB/EMH [OC]: I said, assist me! 

[Sickbay]

(Interface 047 is showing data missing.)
KIM: Where do we start?
BOMB/EMH: There are several disruptions in my memory index, including a three minute thirty seven second gap just prior to the crash.
TORRES: A recursive search algorithm might retrieve the missing data. There. You received a subspace transmission. A command to alter course and head toward the planet surface.
KIM: Looks like your landing wasn't an accident.
BOMB/EMH: It was an attempt by the enemy to divert me from my target.
TORRES: No, your access codes are encrypted.
BOMB/EMH: They must have developed an infiltration code.
KIM: What if it wasn't the enemy?
BOMB/EMH: Who else would try to divert me?
KIM: Correct me if I'm wrong, but these are the same duotronic algorithms that you use to communicate with.
BOMB/EMH: My own people wouldn't try to stop me.
KIM: Maybe they changed their mind.
BOMB/EMH: The enemy is ruthless. My target is a threat. Why would my people call off the assault?
KIM: If we clear up some more of these memory files, maybe we'll find out.
BOMB/EMH: Your assistance is no longer required.
TORRES: What's wrong? You afraid you might find out you're not supposed to destroy that installation?
KIM: Let us finish the job. Then you can decide what you want to do with the information.
BOMB/EMH: Proceed.
KIM: Does the name Strategic Command Matrix mean anything to you?
BOMB/EMH: That's my control centre. They ordered my launch.
KIM: Well, it looks like your orders were rescinded. See for yourself.
BOMB/EMH: All long range tactical armour units. Terminate mission immediately.
KIM: Keep reading.
BOMB/EMH: It says the war is over. It ended nearly three years ago. My launch was a mistake. There was a malfunction in one of the command sensors. It activated a series of launch sequencers. My people managed to shut most of them down, but thirty four weapons were fired. Including me.
KIM: I guess this means you can disarm yourself now.
BOMB/EMH: No. There's no confirmation code here. We avoided the enemy's minefield so they're trying to deceive us.
TORRES: The confirmation could be in one of your damaged memory files.
BOMB/EMH: Or maybe it was you. Deceiving me to implement your pacifist philosophy.
KIM: That's not true.
BOMB/EMH: You lied to me before. Why should I trust you now?
TORRES: You don't have to trust us. Just access those files.
BOMB/EMH: No! I am programmed to destroy my target. I will complete my mission!
KIM: If the war is over, you could end up starting another one. How many of your people will die then?  
(Whumph!)
BOMB/EMH: Sickbay to Bridge.

[Bridge]

BOMB/EMH [OC]: Report.
JANEWAY: We've run into a subspace mine. We had to drop out of warp.
BOMB/EMH [OC]: There shouldn't be mines along this course.
CHAKOTAY: We're detecting thousands of them scattered throughout the region.
JANEWAY: We're plotting a new course to avoid them.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Transmit it to me. This trajectory will delay us for two days.
KIM: That'll give you time to confirm that the war is over.
BOMB/EMH: No! Proceed as planned! I'm programming a shield enhancement

[Bridge]

BOMB/EMH [OC]: That will protect Voyager.
JANEWAY: I'm still going to have to reduce speed.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Agreed. But only until we've cleared the minefield.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Maintain course, Mister Paris. One quarter impulse. Think he bought it?
CHAKOTAY: He seemed to.
JANEWAY: Let's give him another good shake, just to be sure.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]

(Whumph!)
KIM: That was another mine.
BOMB/EMH: The shields will hold.

[Jefferies tube above Sickbay]

TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. I have accessed the holo-matrix.
JANEWAY [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix. Casualty report.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: I'm putting the finishing touches on Seven's plasma burn and it looks pretty authentic, if I do say so myself.
JANEWAY [OC]: Good work. Stand by.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Time to hit another mine, Tom a big one. Commander, blow out the plasma relays on deck six.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Sickbay. We have heavy casualties.
BOMB/EMH: Maintain heading and speed.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: That's going to be difficult. Our Astrometrics officer has been injured. She's the one who's been guiding us through the minefield.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Replace her.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Seven of Nine's abilities are unique. We're not going to get past

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY [OC]: These mines without her.
BOMB/EMH: Then treat her injuries and send her back to her post.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: She has third degree plasma burns. She needs to go to Sickbay to be treated. If you want to reach your target you're going to have to wait.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: All right, Captain. But I'm warning you. No deceptions.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix. Go.

[Sickbay]

(Neelix rings the Sickbay doorbell, and the Bomb/EMH lets them in.)
BOMB/EMH: Treat her as quickly as possible.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They're in.
TUVOK: Now, Tuvok.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Bridge, my holo-matrix is destabilising. Why?

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We took damage to our secondary systems.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Repair them. Now! Or I'll activate the detonation sequence.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Stand by.

[Sickbay]

(Seven gets off the biobed while the Bomb/EMH's back is turned.)
TORRES: What's going on?
NEELIX: (sotto) She's trying to defuse the weapon.
(Seven taps some buttons on the top of the bomb, then injects her tubules. The bomb sends an energy surge back back up her arm.)
NEELIX: Seven! She's going into neural shock. Help me. (Neelix and Torres get Seven back on the biobed. The Bomb/EMH solidifies again and goes to the bomb.)
BOMB/EMH: Sickbay to Bridge. Your attempt to disable me did not succeed. I am designed to repel any

[Bridge]

BOMB/EMH [OC]: Assault on my bioneural circuitry.
JANEWAY: We've tried to reason with you. You left me no choice.
BOMB/EMH: And you leave me

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: No choice. You and your crew will abandon Voyager immediately.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: No deal.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: This is not a negotiation! Comply or I will detonate!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Go ahead. Do it.

[Sickbay]

BOMB/EMH: Everyone on board will be killed!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: But no one else will.
PARIS: Captain, thirty two vessels just dropped out of warp off our port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(It is the fleet of bombs. They surround Voyager.)
TUVOK: One of them is transmitting a message to the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. We've got company. Thirty two

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY [OC]: Self-guided weapons.
BOMB/EMH: They detected my presence aboard your vessel. They say my target is essential. They altered course to ensure that I reach it. They are ordering me to transport off your vessel.

[Bridge]

BOMB/EMH [OC]: They will tractor me to my target.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, reintegrate its neural matrix, and

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY [OC]: Prepare to beam it off
KIM: We can't do that, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: Explain.
KIM: These weapons were fired by accident. We can't let them reach their targets.
BOMB/EMH: Enough! Captain, order him to proceed.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Harry, what are you talking about?
KIM [OC]: Captain, I need

[Sickbay]

KIM: A minute. You're making a mistake. Your own people tried to disarm you
BOMB/EMH: I cannot be certain of that.
KIM: Yes, you can. You can check your memory files. Look for the confirmation code.
BOMB/EMH: No more delays.
KIM: Check the files.
BOMB/EMH: Reintegrate my matrix!
KIM: No!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Do what Harry says or you're not leaving this ship.
BOMB/EMH [OC]: You're in no position to give me orders.
JANEWAY: If you detonate now, you'll destroy yourself and your companions. Is that what you want?

[Sickbay]

KIM: The confirmation code.
(The Bomb/EMH finds the file.)
BOMB/EMH: Coding intersequence four four three, vector three nine one two one. Cessation of hostilities confirmed. Unauthorised launch confirmed. Order to terminate mission confirmed.
KIM: You must disarm yourself and tell the others to stand down.
BOMB/EMH: It's a deception.
KIM: This code of yours uses a modulating algorithm. It would be almost impossible to duplicate.
BOMB/EMH: The enemy is ruthless. They are violent.
KIM: Have you ever met the enemy? You're just spouting propaganda, what you've been programmed to believe.
BOMB/EMH: I have a directive.
KIM: It's been countermanded!
BOMB/EMH: I am a series five, long range tactical armour unit designed to traverse enemy space and circumvent all attempts to deter me.
KIM: You're a sentient being.
BOMB/EMH: I have a duty to protect my people, to destroy my target.
KIM: You've been programmed with intelligence so you could make decisions on your own. Well, it's time to make one. Countless lives are at stake. Ever since you took the Doctor's form you've been learning what it's like to be one of us. Now, try to imagine what it's like to be one of your victims. Your first victim. You've seen her suffering. Increase that by a factor of one million, ten million, and that's how much suffering you'll cause if you don't end this.
BOMB/EMH: They're asking why I haven't left your ship.
KIM: Tell them.
BOMB/EMH: I'm transmitting our orders to terminate the mission. They also received those orders, but they had already crossed the targeting threshold. Once we're within two light years of our target we cannot be diverted.
KIM: Tell them the war's over.
BOMB/EMH: I did.
KIM: Tell them you got the message before you crossed the threshold, when you were on the planet surface.
BOMB/EMH: They don't believe me.
KIM: It's up to you to make them understand.
BOMB/EMH: They only understand their directive. They won't listen. Reintegrate my neural matrix and return me to the others.
KIM: We won't do that.
BOMB/EMH: I have no intention of proceeding to my target. I will stop them.
KIM: How?
BOMB/EMH: I am a weapon of mass destruction. You want me to see past my programming. Then you must try to see past your doubts.
KIM: B'Elanna, give me a hand. Bridge, lock onto the weapon. Prepare to beam it into space.
JANEWAY [OC]: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: Captain, no time to explain. Just trust me on this one.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I hear you loud and clear, Ensign. Do it.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: I've reconfigured the bioneural matrix.
KIM: Ready? I'm sorry.
BOMB/EMH: I am simply completing my mission. Only the target has changed.
(The EMH fritzes, and the bomb wakes up.)
TORRES: Transfer complete.
EMH: Please state the nature of the. What happened? How long was I offline?
TORRES: We'll explain later. Seven needs your help.
KIM: Bridge, energise.
(The bomb is beamed into the flotilla. One of them grabs it with a tractor beam and they fly away.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They've gone into warp.
JANEWAY: Maintain long range sensors.
(The bomb detonates, starting a chain reaction.)
TUVOK: I'm detecting a series of antimatter explosions.
CHAKOTAY: In proximity to what?
TUVOK: No ships. No planets. Nothing.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Ensign Kim. The weapons have been destroyed.

[Doctor's office]

KIM: Anyone home?
EMH: Ensign. Feeling well I hope?
KIM: Perfect. On my way to the Bridge for another night shift. I came by to check on Seven.
EMH: You just missed her.
KIM: What's her prognosis?
EMH: She'll need another week of regeneration, but I expect she'll make a full recovery.
KIM: Good news. 

[Sickbay]

EMH: Considering I was responsible for her injuries, you can imagine my relief.
KIM: Well, you weren't exactly yourself at the time.
EMH: That's not what I mean. I was the one who asked you to bring that device aboard in the first place. I even argued with the Captain to keep it aboard after we learned what it was.
KIM: It was an artificial intelligence, like you. But I have to admit, his personality made you seem like Mister Congeniality. Look, Doc, the truth is I never would have gotten through to him without you.
EMH: From what I've heard, I wasn't much help.
KIM: You were. I held you up as an example of how an artificial intelligence could exceed its programming. I didn't realise how true that was until today.
EMH: It seems your strategy worked. Thank you.
KIM: I'd better get to the bridge. You never know when Ensign Kim will be called upon to take command again.
EMH: Voyager could do worse.

[Bridge]

KIM: Helm, status?
JENKINS: Current speed, warp five, heading oh twenty one, mark three.
KIM: Anything on long range sensors?
JENKINS: Nothing to report.
KIM: As you were.
JENKINS: Permission to speak freely, sir.
KIM: Why would tonight be any different?
JENKINS: People have been talking about you.
KIM: Oh?
JENKINS: Rumour has it you were the one who outsmarted the smart bomb.
KIM: Well, not exactly. I made First Contact with a sentient being. All I did was help it understand a few things. The rest was up to him.
JENKINS: Understood. Actually, I've been authorised by the junior staff to thank you for keeping us in one piece.
KIM: You're welcome. Any time. Do me a favour?
JENKINS: Of course, sir.
KIM: No more distress calls. At least not tonight.


S5 E26
Equinox Part 1
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 26 May 1999

[Equinox Bridge]
(A Federation starship which is definitely not Voyager has lots of energy playing over its shields. The bridge is a mess, with consoles exploding regularly.)
RANSOM: Stay on your course.
BURKE: Shields are down to twenty nine percent. They're breaking through.
RANSOM: Let them.
BURKE: Sir?
RANSOM: Take the shields offline and recharge the emitters. That'll bring them up to full power.
BURKE: The charging cycle takes forty five seconds. We'll be vulnerable.
RANSOM: We'll be dead if we don't get the shields back up. Arm yourselves! Drop shields. Recharge cycle?
BURKE: Thirty seconds.
RANSOM: There!
(An energy ball appears by the ceiling. They shoot at it. Others appear and get shot at.)
RANSOM: Time?
BURKE: Ten seconds. (A two-armed creature with big teeth screeches out of one of the energy balls and attacks a crewman. He dies immediately, his skin turning grey and dry. More creatures appear.)

[Astrometrics lab]

RANSOM [on screen]: Federation Starship Equinox. We're under attack. We need assistance. This is Captain Ransom of the Federation Starship Equinox. We're under attack. We need assistance.
JANEWAY: Ransom. He was in command of a science vessel. The Equinox.
SEVEN: This distress call was transmitted approximately fourteen hours ago
CHAKOTAY: Distance?
SEVEN: Three point two light years.
JANEWAY: Try to get a fix on their location.
CHAKOTAY: What's it doing in the Delta Quadrant?
SEVEN: Perhaps it's searching for Voyager.
JANEWAY: The Equinox is a Nova class ship. It was designed for planetary research, not long range tactical missions.
SEVEN: I've got their coordinates. Heading two five eight mark twelve.
JANEWAY: Set a course, maximum warp. Go to red alert. Hang on, Captain.
(Chakotay leaves.)
SEVEN: Did you know this individual?
JANEWAY: Only by reputation.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: He was an exobiologist, promoted to Captain after he made first contact with the Yridians.
SEVEN: Species six two nine one. The Collective determined that they were extinct.
JANEWAY: So did the Federation. Ransom proved otherwise. I always wanted to meet him. Too bad it won't be under better circumstances.
SEVEN: I look forward to meeting him as well, and his crew. I wish to expand my knowledge of humanity.
JANEWAY: Let's hope you get the chance.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp.
KIM: I've got them. Two thousand kilometres off the port bow. They're moving at low impulse.
JANEWAY: Intercept. Can you get a visual?
(The Equinox's shields are still lit up.)
TUVOK: They are heavily damaged. Multiple hull breaches. Warp drive is offline.
NEELIX: What's happening to their shields?
TORRES: They're being disrupted by some kind of energy surges.
PARIS: Weapons fire?
TUVOK: There are no other ships in the vicinity.
KIM: We're in hailing range.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We're responding to your
RANSOM [OC]: Voyager, you've got to extend your shields around our ship! Match the emitter frequency!
JANEWAY: Are you under attack?
RANSOM [OC]: Shields, quickly!
JANEWAY: Do it.
(Paris flies Voyager directly above Equinox, which is only as long as her nacelles.)
PARIS: We're in position.
TUVOK: I am attempting to match their shield frequency.
EMH: Do you hear something?
(A high pitched whistle.)
SEVEN: Interspatial fissure are opening on decks ten, six and one.
JANEWAY: Tuvok!
TUVOK: Stand by. Shields are holding.
CHAKOTAY: The fissures?
SEVEN: No sign of them.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Ransom. Captain? (static) Assemble rescue teams. Secure the Equinox. Tuvok, you're with me.

[Equinox Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: Hello? Is there anyone here? (to Torres.) See if you can bring main power online. Tom.
(Paris examines a dead crewman.)
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
PARIS: Some kind of thermolytic reaction. It's desiccated every cell in that body.
TORRES: Commander. I can't make heads or tails of this injector manifold, and it looks like the dilithium matrix has been completely redesigned.
CHAKOTAY: We'll try to find one of their engineers to help us. In the meantime, see if you can bypass the core.
TORRES: Aye, sir.
(Chakotay hears a woman's gasps. She is trapped beneath a fallen beam.)
CHAKOTAY: Hang on.
(He clears the debris.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay, U.S.S. Voyager.
GILMORE: But, but we're the only humans in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: That's what we used to think. Come on.

[Equinox Jefferies tube]

(Kim finds another trapped crewman.)
KIM: Over here. Hang on. We're getting you out of here.
LESSING: I don't believe we've met.
KIM: Ensign Kim, and this is Seven of Nine. I have to cut him out with a plasma torch. Talk to him, keep him calm.
SEVEN: State your name.
LESSING: Lessing, Noah. What are you doing on this side of the galaxy?
SEVEN: The answer is complicated.
LESSING: Do me a favour? See if my legs are still there. I haven't felt them in two days.
SEVEN: Your limbs are intact.
LESSING: Thank you.
KIM: Seven, give me hand.
SEVEN: Do not be frightened.
LESSING: Too late for that.

[Equinox - crew quarters]

(A bunkroom, by the looks of it.)
NEELIX: I'm picking up lifesigns. Hello? Is there anyone here?
CREWMAN: No! (He shoots at Neelix and his security detail.)
NEELIX: We're here to help you.
CREWMAN: Take cover! We're under attack!
(They stun the crewman and put a Voyager comm.badge on  him.)
NEELIX: Neelix to Sickbay.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay here.
NEELIX: We found another survivor. His wounds are not serious but he's suffering from psychological distress.
EMH [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Equinox Bridge]

(Janeway and Tuvok break in. They find the helmsman, Burke is uninjured. Ransom in unconscious. Janeway scans him then puts her hand on his cheek. He wakes.)
RANSOM: My crew?
JANEWAY: You took heavy casualties. We're treating the survivors. Who attacked you?
RANSOM: We don't know. We can't communicate with them. They've been attacking us for weeks.
JANEWAY: Easy, easy.
RANSOM: I've got to secure the ship,
JANEWAY: Leave that to us.
(She tries to put a Voyager comm. badge on him.)
RANSOM: No, treat me here. I'm not leaving my bridge.
JANEWAY: I can't pull rank on you, Captain, but you're in no condition to put up a fight.
RANSOM: So, how's Earth?
JANEWAY: I wish I could say.
RANSOM: You weren't sent here to find us?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not. We've been stranded in the Delta Quadrant for five years. We were pulled here against our will by an alien called
BOTH: The Caretaker.
JANEWAY: We'll compare notes later on. Let's get you to Voyager.

[Mess hall]

RANSOM: We're here to commemorate our honoured dead. Lieutenant William Yates, Lieutenant John Molar, Ensign Dorothy Chang, Ensign Edward Regis and Crewman David Amantes, who all served with distinction. Their bravery and sacrifice will not be forgotten. They will be missed, but now there is cause for optimism. Captain Janeway, Voyager, on behalf of my crew, thank you.
JANEWAY: We'll have time to give the newest members of our family a proper welcome in the days ahead, but right now, we've got our hands full. The Equinox is secure, but its primary systems are still badly damaged. Harry, B'Elanna, make it your priority. Captain Ransom has provided us with data regarding the alien attacks. Tuvok, Seven, you'll be working with First Officer Maxwell Burke. To kindred spirits. May our journey home together be swift. Dismissed.
TUVOK: We should begin by familiarising you with Voyager's defences.
BURKE: Can you give me a minute? There's someone I'd like to say hello to first.
SEVEN: We'll be in the Astrometrics lab. Deck eight, section twenty nine.
BURKE: See you there.
(Tuvok and Seven leave. Burke goes over to Torres.)
BURKE: BLT.
TORRES: Max. I tried to say hello in Sickbay but you were sedated.
BURKE: I remember. I thought I was dreaming. So, where's my sweater. The blue one? Class insignia on the back?
TORRES: We went to the Academy together.
PARIS: Ah.
BURKE: Maxwell Burke.
PARIS: Tom Paris.
KIM: Harry Kim. Welcome aboard.
TORRES: First Officer, impressive. The last time we talked you were about to drop out of Starfleet.
BURKE: I heard you beat me to it. The Maquis?
TORRES: For a while. Until I ran into these two.
PARIS: And it's been hell ever since.
BURKE: Well, I told your resident Vulcan I'd be right with him. Are you free later? I'd love to catch up.
TORRES: Why don't we all have dinner together?
BURKE: Sounds great.
(Burke leaves.)
PARIS: BLT?
TORRES: Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato. It was a nickname.
PARIS: A nickname?
TORRES: My initials.
PARIS: Oh, how romantic.
TORRES: We broke up over ten years ago. No need to go to red alert.
PARIS: How about yellow alert?
TORRES: You're cute when you're jealous.
PARIS: Who's jealous?
TORRES: See you on the Equinox.
KIM: Well, Turkey Platter, what do you say we go to work?
PARIS: Who's jealous?

[Corridor]

(The woman who Chakotay rescued catches up with him.)
GILMORE: Commander? I've been assigned to one of the repair crews on the Equinox, and I was wondering if I could join a different team. Maybe one on Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Problem?
GILMORE: Just a little post-traumatic stress syndrome.
CHAKOTAY: Bad memories?
GILMORE: A few.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I could use someone with your engineering abilities.
GILMORE: Well, thank you. Such a clean ship. I mean, I'm used to falling bulkheads and missing deck plates.
CHAKOTAY: In a few weeks you won't even recognise the Equinox. You'll be happy to go back.
GILMORE: Unless I stay. You said you could use someone with my engineering abilities.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think your Captain would appreciate that. He's got a skeleton crew as it is.

[Turbolift]

(Gilmore hesitates at the threshold.)
CHAKOTAY: Engineering's five decks down. It's a long crawl through the Jefferies tubes. (She steps in.) Deck eleven.
GILMORE: I haven't set foot in a turbolift in over three months.
CHAKOTAY: Claustrophobia?
GILMORE: If one of those fissures opened up in here, where would we take cover?
CHAKOTAY: It's only a graviton relay. Nothing to worry about.
GILMORE: Do I look worried? (She hears the alien noise.) Emergency stop!

[Corridor]

GILMORE: If you don't mind I think I'd rather take the Jefferies tube.
CHAKOTAY: I could use the exercise.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've run a thermographic analysis of our shields. It revealed multiple stress points. We believe they're the result of alien attempts to infiltrate our vessels. Each time a fissure opens within a metre of our shields it weakens them by point three percent.
JANEWAY: At the present rate, we have less than two days to mount a defence.
SEVEN: According to your bio-scans the aliens can survive in our realm for only several seconds.
RANSOM: They're like fish out of water, but they can do a lot of damage in those seconds.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, it is a tactical weakness. Perhaps we can exploit it.
BURKE: What have you got in mind?
SEVEN: If we can show them we have the ability to hold them here, they'll think twice before launching another attack.
JANEWAY: But the question is, how do we catch these fish?
BURKE: You build a net.
JANEWAY: Commander?
BURKE: A multiphasic force field to be exact. We wanted to see what we were up against so we built a small chamber that could keep one of them trapped for several minutes.
JANEWAY: If we could expand on that technology, we might be able to create a lattice work of multiphasic forcefields around both ships.
BURKE: Rudy?
RANSOM: If Captain Janeway agrees.
JANEWAY: We'll need to examine that stasis chamber.
RANSOM: I'm afraid that won't be possible. It's in our research lab. That whole section was flooded with thermionic radiation during the last attack. It'll be days before anyone can go in there.
BURKE: The design schematics are in our auxiliary datacore.
RANSOM: I'll see if I can download them. You give me a hand?

[Equinox Bridge]

JANEWAY: I couldn't help but notice your crew calls you by your first name.
RANSOM: When you've been in the trenches as long as we have, rank and protocol are luxuries. Besides, we're a long way from Starfleet Command.
JANEWAY: I know the feeling.
RANSOM: You seem to run a pretty tight ship.
JANEWAY: We've been known to let our hair down from time to time. But I find that maintaining protocol reminds us of where we came from and hopefully, where we're going.
RANSOM: It seems to work quite well for you.
JANEWAY: Oh, we've overcome our share of obstacles, Warp core breaches, ion storms, a few rounds with the Borg
RANSOM: The Borg? We haven't seen so much as a Cube since the day we arrived.
JANEWAY: Consider yourself lucky.
RANSOM: Have you ever run into the Krowtonan Guard?
JANEWAY: Never heard of them.
RANSOM: That's how we spent our first week in the Delta Quadrant. They claimed we violated their territory. I gave the order to keep going. I lost thirty nine. Half my crew.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
RANSOM: We never recovered from that loss. It changed everything.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
RANSOM: When I first realised that we'd be travelling across the Delta Quadrant for the rest of our lives, I told my crew that we had a duty as Starfleet officers to expand our knowledge and uphold our principles. After a couple of years, we started to forget that we were explorers. And there were times when we nearly forgot that we were human beings.
JANEWAY: This is a Nova class science vessel, designed for short term research missions. Minimal weapons. It can't even go faster than warp eight. Frankly, I don't know how you've done it. You've obviously travelled as far as we have with much fewer resources.
RANSOM: I wish that I could take all the credit, but we stumbled across a wormhole, and made a few enhancements on our warp engines. I'd like to ask you something, Captain to Captain.
JANEWAY: Mmm hmm.
RANSOM: The Prime Directive. How often have you broken it for the sake of protecting your crew?
JANEWAY: Broken it? Never. Bent it on occasion. And even then it was a difficult choice. What about you?
RANSOM: I've walked the line once or twice, but nothing serious. There you are.
(He has found the Equinox' bridge plaque.)
JANEWAY: It's a good omen. Let's put it back where it belongs.

[Mess hall]

RANSOM: I thought I'd find you here.
BURKE: How could I resist after two years on emergency rations?
RANSOM: Don't get too comfortable. If Janeway's any indication, these people will never understand.
BURKE: They're going to find out eventually.
RANSOM: Not if we keep them out of the research lab, and away from the warp core injectors. And be careful what you say around their crew. That includes old girlfriends.
BURKE: Understood.
(Ransom tries a piece of Burke's meal.)
RANSOM: Mmm. Not bad.

[Astrometrics lab]

LESSING: How's my angel of mercy?
SEVEN: Crewman Lessing. I didn't expect you to recover so quickly.
LESSING: You have an outstanding EMH. Ours can barely hold a laser scalpel.
SEVEN: The Doctor is efficient.
LESSING: I've been assigned to help you sort through our bio-data. You saved my life. The least I can do is save you a little time.
(They hear the noise of a fissure opening.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Lateral shields are offline.
CHAKOTAY: How's that possible?
KIM: Fissures are opening on decks one, eight and eleven.
CHAKOTAY: Reroute power.
KIM: What happened?
TUVOK: Apparently, the aliens began to focus their attacks on a single shield vector. It collapsed before the auxiliary emitters could respond.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like they've changed their tactics. We may have less time than we thought.

[Briefing room]

SEVEN: We've examined the schematics of your multiphasic chamber. It can be adapted. We intend to create an auto-initiating security grid.
TUVOK: The moment an alien invades either ship, a forcefield will surround it.
SEVEN: Once we modify our field generator to emit multiphasic frequencies, it will power the security grids on both ships.
JANEWAY: How long will it take?
TUVOK: Approximately fourteen hours.
GILMORE: We don't know when they'll break through again. We may not last that long.
CHAKOTAY: We could cut the time in half if we evacuate all personnel from the Equinox and focus our efforts here on Voyager.
RANSOM: Remember, we are still thirty five thousand light years from Earth. We should try to preserve both ships.
BURKE: With two vessels we'd be able to pool our resources, doubling our chances of finding a short cut home.
JANEWAY: Normally I'd agree, but right now one of our ships in vulnerable. Chakotay's right. We should make our stand on Voyager.
RANSOM: I don't want to force the issue. But I am prepared to return to the Equinox with my crew. What is the protocol in this situation? We have two Captains and two ships. Who gets the last word? 
JANEWAY: Starfleet Regulation one hundred ninety one, Article fourteen. In a combat situation involving more than one ship, command falls to the vessel with tactical superiority. I looked it up this morning.
RANSOM: Good thinking.
JANEWAY: In this case, protocol recognises my authority.
RANSOM: Are you ordering me to abandon my ship?
JANEWAY: I'd rather not have to.
RANSOM: That protocol was written in the Alpha Quadrant. I'm not sure that it makes much sense out here.
JANEWAY: The regulation stands.
RANSOM: Who am I to dispute protocol? Give Captain Janeway your full cooperation.
BURKE: Rudy.
RANSOM: Max, that's an order. We'll get through this. If that's all, Captain, I'd like to return to my quarters and collect a few mementoes.
JANEWAY: By all means.

[Engineering]

(Burke is downloading Multiphasic Field Generator 406 schematics to his tricorder on the upper level.)
TORRES: Intruder alert. Same old Max, going through my things. That is a command station. It's off limits without my direct authorisation.
BURKE: I didn't realise. Are you going to throw me in the Brig?
TORRES: I think we can overlook this infraction. Can I help you with something?
BURKE: Just doing some homework, studying your propulsion system. If there's a chance I'm going to be stuck on Voyager. I figured I better learn my way around. Maybe you could tutor me over dinner?
TORRES: Problem is, you were never really interested in the work, or the meal. Something tells me you haven't changed.
BURKE: You'd be surprised. I'm not the. What did you once call me?
TORRES: PetaQ.
BURKE: PetaQ. I'm not the petaQ I used to be. Let me prove it to you.
TORRES: Look, Max, don't get me wrong, it's good to see you again, but ten years.
BURKE: Tom Paris.
TORRES: Tom Paris.
BURKE: You could do worse. (Download complete.) So, we're still on for dinner? Just the two of us?
TORRES: Get going, or I will throw you in the Brig.

[Mess hall]

CHAKOTAY: Before we abandon the Equinox, we should try to salvage any useful components. Let's start with your dilithium crystals.
GILMORE: What we have left of them. I'm afraid we only have a few isograms.
KIM: That's barely enough to power the sonic showers.
GILMORE: Can I make a suggestion?
CHAKOTAY: Please.
GILMORE: Let's forget about the primary systems. They're too badly damaged. Let's focus on supplies. We picked up a few items I think might come in handy. Two kilotons of kemacite ore, a dozen canisters of mercurium.
CHAKOTAY: Tell Neelix to make room in Cargo Bay one.
KIM: Right.
GILMORE: Could you use a synaptic stimulator?
CHAKOTAY: Depends. What is it?
' GILMORE: It's a neural interface you wear behind your ear. It taps into your visual cortex and shows you different alien vistas. Just think of it as a poor man's holodeck.
KIM: So that's how you kept yourself entertained.
GILMORE: Beats checkers. The Ponea gave it to us.
CHAKOTAY: Never heard of them.
GILMORE: We called them the life of the Delta Quadrant. They see every First Contact as an excuse to throw a party. I wish that we had encountered more species like that. You're the first friendly faces we've seen in months. I'm glad we found you.
CHAKOTAY: The feeling's mutual. Those modified plasma injectors looked elaborate. What were you trying to do?
GILMORE: We were experimenting with ways to enhance our warp drive. It doesn't work.
KIM: Maybe we should let B'Elanna take a look.
GILMORE: It won't work. We tried for months.
NAOMI: Excuse me.
GILMORE: Oh, hello there.
NAOMI: Commander, permission to interrupt?
CHAKOTAY: Granted.
NAOMI: Ensign Gilmore.
GILMORE: That's right.
NAOMI: Naomi Wildman, Captain's Assistant.
GILMORE: Is that so?
NAOMI: I wanted to officially welcome you aboard the Starship Voyager.
GILMORE: I'm glad to be here.
NAOMI: If you need anything, replicator rations, a tour of the lower decks, I'm your man.
GILMORE: Thank you, Miss Wildman. I'll keep that in mind.
NAOMI: As you were.
(Naomi leaves.)
GILMORE: I didn't realise that you had children on board.
KIM: Only one. She was born here.
GILMORE: I have a nephew back on Earth the same age. Well, not any more. I guess he's a teenager by now. I probably wouldn't even recognise him.
CHAKOTAY: You'll see him again.
RANSOM [OC]: Ransom to Gilmore.
GILMORE: Yes, Captain.
RANSOM [OC]: Report to the Equinox bridge.
GILMORE: On my way. Duty calls.
(Gilmore leaves.)
CHAKOTAY: Assemble a salvage team.
KIM: Aye, sir.

[Equinox Bridge]

BURKE: Once we take their field generator, we'll part company.
GILMORE: What happens to Voyager?
BURKE: They have weapons, shields, a full crew. They'll survive.
LESSING: Maybe we should abandon ship. Try to forget everything that's happened here.
RANSOM: A shower and a hot meal. I guess that's all it takes for some of us to forget what's at stake here. We're going home, We can't let Voyager stop us now. Not when we're this close. Now we're proceeding as planned. Are there any other objections? I need each and every one of you to give me your very best, as you always have. Max.
BURKE: This won't be easy. The generator is located on deck eleven, next to the warp plasma manifold. We can't get a clean lock without boosting the signal. Marla, we need you to set aside your claustrophobia and crawl through the access port, and set up the transport enhancers.
GILMORE: Understood.
BURKE: We'll have to take the internal sensors in that section offline. Noah, you're elected.
LESSING: You can count on me, sir.
BURKE: I'll disengage the power couplings from Engineering.
RANSOM: You'll all have time for one last shower. Make the most of it.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: There's a minor fluctuation in the security grid.
TUVOK: It's within tolerance.
SEVEN: I believe I can correct it. The discrepancy is in the Equinox research lab. If we can determine the exact frequency of their multiphasic chamber, I will tune our field generator to match it.
TUVOK: There are times when perfection hinders efficiency.
SEVEN: This is odd. The lab is still permeated with high levels of thermionic radiation.
TUVOK: It should have dissipated by now.
SEVEN: I believe I have an explanation. Three EPS conduits have been rerouted to the lab. It appears they are emitting the radiation.

[Ready room]

TUVOK: The lab was contaminated intentionally.
JANEWAY: Any theories?
TUVOK: Only one. Ransom doesn't want us to enter the research lab.
JANEWAY: He has been adamant about protecting his ship. I thought it was simply a captain's pride. I want to take a closer look at that lab. If we close off those EPS conduits, how long will it take to vent the radiation?
SEVEN: Several hours.
JANEWAY: I don't want to wait that long. Send the Doctor. He'll be immune to its effects. Tell him to look for anything out of the ordinary. Monitor his progress from Astrometrics.
TUVOK: Shall I notify Captain Ransom?
JANEWAY: Not yet. I want to wait until we test your theory.

[Equinox Research lab]

(The EMH is beamed aboard. The wall panels are flickering.)
EMH: I'm in. I've found the multiphasic chamber. There's some kind of organic mass inside. It appears to be a member of the alien species.

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH [OC]: But it's cell structures have vitrified.

[Equinox Research lab]

EMH: This is more that just a stasis chamber, it's some kind of matter conversion technology. Hold on, there's a control port here. Hmm.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Doctor?
EMH [OC}: The chamber contains a polaron grid

[Equinox Research lab]

EMH: And a submolecular resequencer. It looks like it was designed to convert the alien cell structures into some kind of crystalline compound.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: That function was not specified in their schematics.

[Equinox Research lab]

EMH: I've a feeling there's a lot here they didn't specify. I've accessed their research logs. They're encrypted, but judging by the file headings, they've performed this procedure dozens of times. More of the alien compound, but it's been biochemically altered. They've extracted the base proteins. Its molecular structure is most unusual.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
EMH [OC]: It appears to store a great deal of

[Equinox Research lab]

EMH: Nucleogenic energy. I'm no engineer, but I'd say they were trying to convert this material into a source of power.

[Corridor]

BURKE: I'm going to miss this ship.
RANSOM: Once we get back to Earth, there'll be plenty of women. Status?
BURKE: Ready on all fronts. The transport enhancers are in place and Noah's created a subroutine to mask Voyager's internal sensors.
RANSOM: Power couplings?
BURKE: Bypass controls have been routed to our bridge. All you need to do is say energise.
RANSOM: Janeway wants to bring on the security grid at nineteen hundred hours. We'll have to act before then. Tell the others to be prepared to.
(Security guards come out of a turbolift and head towards them, phasers ready.)
RANSOM: Max, the transporter room's not far from here. Keep moving.
(They are blocked by Tuvok and another guard.)
TUVOK: Captain Janeway wishes to speak with you.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: The alien compound. Ten isograms. If I understand your calculations, that's enough to increase your warp factor by what, point zero three percent for one month? Unfortunately, that boost wouldn't get you very far, so you'd need to replenish the supply and that means killing another lifeform. And then another. How many lives would it take to get you back to the Alpha quadrant? I think you know the reason we're under attack. These aliens are trying to protect themselves from you.
RANSOM: Sixty three. That's how many more it will take. Every time I sacrifice one of those lives, a part of me is lost as well.
JANEWAY: I might believe that if I hadn't examined your research. These experiments were meticulous and they were brutal. If you'd felt any remorse, you'd never have continued.
RANSOM: Starfleet regulation three, paragraph twelve. In the event of imminent destruction, a captain is authorised to preserve the lives of his crew by any justifiable means.
JANEWAY: I doubt that protocol covers mass murder.
RANSOM: In my judgment, it did.
JANEWAY: Unacceptable.
RANSOM: We had nothing. My ship was in pieces. Our dilithium was gone. We were running on thrusters, We hadn't eaten in sixteen days. We had just enough power to enter orbit of an M class planet. And lucky for us, the inhabitants were generous.

[Ankari campfire]

RANSOM [OC]: They were called the Ankari. They provided us with a meal, a few supplies, even some dilithium crystals. They even performed one of their sacred rituals to invoke spirits of good fortune from another realm to bless our journey. But these weren't spirits, they were nucleogenic life forms. Our scans revealed that they were emitting high levels of antimatter. Later the same night we managed to obtain one of the summoning devices in exchange for an energy converter.

[Equinox Research lab]

RANSOM [OC]: We constructed a containment field that would prevent the lifeform from vanishing so quickly, but something went wrong.
RANSOM: Get it out of there.
RANSOM [OC]: We tried to send it back.
BURKE: We can't.
RANSOM [OC]: But it was too late.

[Briefing room]

RANSOM: We examined the remains and discovered it could be converted to enhance our propulsion systems. It was already dead. What would you have done? We travelled over ten thousand light years in less than two weeks. We'd found our salvation. How could we ignore it?
JANEWAY: By adhering to the oath you took as Starfleet officers to seek out life, not destroy it.
RANSOM: It's easy to cling to principles when you're standing on a vessel with its bulkheads intact, manned by a crew that's not starving.
JANEWAY: It's never easy. But if we turn our backs on our principles, we stop being human. I'm putting an end to your experiments and you are hereby relieved of your command. You and your crew will be confined to quarters.
RANSOM: Please, show them leniency. They were only following my orders.
JANEWAY: Their mistake.
RANSOM: It's a long way home, Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Doctor, return to their research lab and retrieve all the data you can locate on the aliens. I want to find a way to communicate with them.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: (to Seven) Go to their engine room. Take those warp core modifications offline.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: Let's try to make First Contact the right way.

[Corridor]

GILMORE: What's going to happen to us?
CHAKOTAY: That's up to Captain Janeway. You'll be confined to quarters until we can find a way to make peace with these lifeforms you've been killing. If it's not too late.
GILMORE: To be honest, I'm glad you stopped us. Living the rest of my life knowing what we've done
CHAKOTAY: You could have stopped yourself. Why didn't you?
GILMORE: I don't know. When the Captain ordered me to modify the warp core, I concentrated on the work. I tried not to think about how it was going to be used.
CHAKOTAY: Well, think about it now, because we need your help.
GILMORE: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: After you.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: We're having trouble making sense of all this.
SEVEN: The schematics are encrypted. I can't access them.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know the decryption codes? Your captain's been relieved of command. You take orders from me now. Do you have the codes?
GILMORE: Yes.
SEVEN: Proceed.
CHAKOTAY: Think of it this way, Ensign. You might live with yourself a little easier.
(Gilmore starts entering the codes.)
GILMORE: You said you wanted to learn more about humanity. I guess we're not exactly prized examples. I'm sorry.
SEVEN: On the contrary. You've taught me a great deal.

[Equinox Sickbay]

EMH: Computer, I decrypted this data file. Why can't I access it?
COMPUTER: EMH authorisation is required.
EMH: Is your EMH still functional?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: Activate him.
(The Equinox EMH is, of course, identical in appearance to Voyager's.)
E-EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
EMH: I require your assistance.
E-EMH: Who are you?
EMH: Your counterpart from the Starship Voyager.
E-EMH: Where's Captain Ransom? My crew?
EMH: In custody.
E-EMH: How were you able to leave your Sickbay?
EMH: This device allows me to go anywhere I please. In case you weren't aware, your crew has been running criminal experiments here.
E-EMH: I know. I designed them.
EMH: You? That's a violation of your programming.
E-EMH: They deleted my ethical subroutines.
(The Equinox EMH deactivates the mobile emitter, and it drops to the deck. He picks it up.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm picking up spatial fissures. Hundreds of them.
PARIS: Looks like they've stepped up their attacks.
JANEWAY: Reroute all available power to the shields.
CHAKOTAY: They're holding, but at this rate it won't be long before the aliens break through.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Tuvok. We need that security grid.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: We're preparing to bring it online. Charge the emitters.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Bridge to the Doctor.
E-EMH: Sickbay here.
JANEWAY: Did you find anything?

[Sickbay]

E-EMH: Could you be more specific?

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Neural patterns, cortical scans, anything that could help us programme the universal translator.

[Sickbay]

E-EMH: Er, negative. I couldn't access the Equinox data files. They were encrypted.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Keep studying the information we have. See what you can come up with.

[Sickbay]

E-EMH: Acknowledged. Computer, locate Captain Ransom.
COMPUTER: Captain Ransom is in crew quarters. Deck nine, section twenty two.

[Equinox Engineering]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Seven of Nine. What's your status?
SEVEN: I've dismantled the antimatter injectors, but I'll need several minutes to neutralise the dilithium matrix.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We don't have much time.
SEVEN [OC]: Understood.

[Corridor]

E-EMH: The Equinox crew has been infected with a mutagenic virus. It may be contagious. I've been authorised to inoculate them.
(The guards allow him into the quarters.)

[Crew quarters]

E-EMH: You've all contracted a virus. I'll need to treat you.
RANSOM: A virus?
E-EMH: Doctor's orders.
(But his medical case contains two phasers along with the hyposprays.)
E-EMH: It's me.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Activate the grid. What happened?
TORRES: I don't understand. This should be working. I'm running a system-wide diagnostic.
(Outside the Equinox crew quarters, the guard hears a noise and opens the door. He gets shot.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm reading phaser fire on deck nine, crew quarters. 
JANEWAY: Security, seal off deck nine.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are weakening. They're down to eighty four percent.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge. The field generator is offline. Its power couplings were disengaged.
TORRES: Someone reconfigured the sensors so we couldn't detect it.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Whatever it takes, get that grid online.

[Corridor]

E-EMH: I rerouted transporter control to a panel in the next junction. We can
(They meet security shooting at them, and return fire. E-EMH deactivates himself, and the mobile emitter drops to the deck. Burke brings other crewmembers.)
BURKE: They've sealed off the deck.
RANSOM: Don't worry. We're getting out of here.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Shields down to fifty two percent.
KIM: Captain, unauthorised transport in progress. It's the Equinox crew.
JANEWAY: Block it.
KIM: They've bypassed ops control. They're on their bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Forty percent.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine.

[Equinox Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: Seven, respond.
(Seven has been knocked out by Gilmore.)

[Equinox Bridge]

BURKE: Damn!
RANSOM: What is it?
BURKE: B'Elanna's erected a forcefield. I can't get a lock on the generator
RANSOM: Try overriding the command codes.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Someone's disrupting the forcefield. It's Max. He's using one of his triquadric algorithms. I taught him how to do that ten years ago.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Shields are failing. We've got less than one minute.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. If you don't stop what you're doing, we'll both be destroyed.
RANSOM [on viewscreen]: What's my alternative, thirty years in your brig?
JANEWAY: I'll open fire if I have to.
RANSOM [on viewscreen]: We've been through worse.
JANEWAY: Target their power systems. Fire.

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: Max!
BURKE: Stand by! Okay, BLT, let's see if you remember this trick.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Bridge, they've got the field generator!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What do you mean, they've got it?

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: I don't know how, but they beamed it off Voyager.

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: Get us out of here.
LESSING: I can't. Warp drive is down.
RANSOM: Bridge to Marla. Report.

[Equinox Engineering]

GILMORE: One of their crew tried to dismantle the antimatter injectors. Repairs are underway.

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: What about the field generator?
BURKE: I'm integrating it now.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Shields are down.
(The whine of incoming fissures can be heard.)
JANEWAY: Arm yourselves.

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: It's now or never.
BURKE: Generator's in place. I'm bringing the grid online.

[Bridge]

KIM: Fissures are opening, all decks!

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: Hold your fire!
(They snare an alien. It bounces against the forcefield for a few seconds before dying.)
RANSOM: Take it to the lab.
LESSING: Sir, engines are up and running.
RANSOM: Set a course for the Alpha Quadrant.
BURKE: Course laid in.
RANSOM: Maximum warp. Engage.

[Bridge]

(Equinox whooshes away, leaving Voyager behind to find the aliens. A fissure opens behind Janeway.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain!
(The alien screeches towards Janeway.)

To Be Continued...


S6 E1
Equinox Part 2
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 22 September 1999

[Bridge]

(Janeway gets knocked down, then Chakotay.)
JANEWAY: Give me tactical control.
(The aliens disappear.)
JANEWAY: Good guess. I used a deflector pulse to reinforce the shields. It won't hold for long.
(Chakotay got a fleeting touch of the alien.)
PARIS: Bridge to Sickbay. We have a medical emergency. Doctor, respond. Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir.
KIM: Casualty reports are coming in. Two dead, thirteen wounded. We took heavy damage to the engines.
JANEWAY: The Equinox?
KIM: They've gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Any sign of nucleogenic particles?
KIM: No. 
JANEWAY: Then they haven't engaged their enhanced warp drive yet. Keep looking for
(The sound of new fissures opening.)

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: Report.
BURKE: The shield grid is back in place. The aliens are staying clear.
RANSOM: Are sensors picking up Voyager?
LESSING: It looks like they're under attack.
RANSOM: Maintain course.

[Corridor]

(Janeway and her escort are all armed with big phaser rifles. They split up at a junction, and Janeway finds a dead alien around the corner.)
NEELIX: Captain, I found the Doctor's mobile emitter on deck nine. You might want to take it to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(There are so many injured crew that they are having to lie on the deck, with a blanket. Paris records another death, then goes to Chakotay.)
PARIS: Any sign of the Doc?
JANEWAY: I've got him right here.
(She downloads the programme from the mobile emitter.)
E-EMH: Please state the nature of the. Don't bother.
PARIS: You should start with Chakotay. I've got him stabilised but he's got internal injuries.
JANEWAY: We found your emitter on deck nine.
E-EMH: I was taken hostage by the Equinox crew. I deactivated myself to escape. Did you stop them?
JANEWAY: No.
CHAKOTAY: I'd ask for a status report but I'm not sure I'd want to hear it.
JANEWAY: Harry's analysing the sound we've been hearing. He thinks it's some form of communication.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I once figured out how to speak with a Terrelian seapod. This couldn't be that much harder, Once I get out of Sickbay, I'll lend him a hand.
JANEWAY: We should all be focusing our efforts on finding the Equinox.
CHAKOTAY: First things first. We've got to stop these attacks.
JANEWAY: Our enemies aren't the aliens. They're the humans aboard the Equinox. It's crucial that you don't
(The sound of a fissure.)

[Equinox - Ransom's Quarters]

(The doorbell interrupts Ransom's enjoyment of a rocky coastline via his synaptic stimulator.)
RANSOM: Who is it?
BURKE [OC]: It's Max. I've brought you a visitor.
RANSOM: Hold on. Come in.
(Burke enters with Seven.)
RANSOM: I'm glad you're okay. I've been using this synaptic stimulator. I was just taking a stroll along the Tenkaran coast. You're welcome to try it.
SEVEN: State your intentions.
RANSOM: You know, once we get our enhanced warp drive back online, we'll be on our way home, but it'll still take months to get there. You can spend that time in the brig, or you can become part of this crew. I'd prefer the latter.
SEVEN: I'd prefer the brig.
RANSOM: You know, Janeway's not the only Captain who can help you explore your humanity.
SEVEN: You would be an inferior role model.
RANSOM: Janeway clung to her morality at the expense of her crew. Maybe you should learn from that mistake.
SEVEN: Her only mistake was trusting you.
RANSOM: Take care of her wound.

[Equinox Sickbay]

BURKE: First degree phaser burns, minor lacerations. Looks like we'll have to amputate. That was a joke. You're supposed to smile and make a witty retort.
SEVEN: I'm familiar with human banter. Yours is crude and predictable.
BURKE: You know, Seven. Can I call you Seven? We don't have many luxuries around here. All we've got is each other. You might try letting your shields down or else it's going to be a lonely trip. I'll be damned. Looks like our Doctor left us a replacement.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: We are captives.
EMH: I was attacked by their EMH.
BURKE: Looks like he downloaded you into our database. Good. You can treat your friend.

[Equinox Engineering]

THOMPSON: Priming the injectors.
GILMORE: Marla to Bridge.
RANSOM: Go ahead.
GILMORE: We're ready.
RANSOM [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM: Infuse the enhanced warp drive with twenty isograms of the compound.
LESSING: Aye, sir. Warp drive ready.
RANSOM: Engage.
(Shudder then a jolt.)
RANSOM: What happened?

[Equinox Engineering]

GILMORE: The power relays are offline. They've been encoded.

[Equinox Sickbay]

RANSOM: Give us the codes.
SEVEN: No.
BURKE: If she won't give us the codes maybe we could extract them ourselves.
EMH: Seven's cranial infrastructure is highly complex. You'll need months just to figure out what she had for breakfast.
BURKE: That's why you're going to help us.
EMH: I refuse.
BURKE: Do it or I'll erase your programme.
EMH: Be my guest.
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: Don't worry, they need me. They'd be cutting off their holographic nose to spite their face. Now I suggest you
(Ransom does something at a console, and the EMH flickers.)
RANSOM: All right, Doctor. Now, get to work. You know what we're looking for.
EMH: Very well. She'll try to resist. I'll have to restrain her.
SEVEN: Doctor.
RANSOM: I deleted his ethical subroutines. He'll be a little more cooperative now. Keep me posted.
EMH: Aye, Captain. This way, please.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: It's not exactly Shakespeare, but it gets the point across.
CHAKOTAY: A small olive branch is still an olive branch.
JANEWAY: Run this through to your translation matrix.
CHAKOTAY: Set your weapons down.
PARIS: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Somebody's got to start trusting somebody around here.
JANEWAY: Belay that order. I appreciate your optimism, but in this case, weapons.
KIM: Ready to transmit.
JANEWAY: Drop shields, bridge only. Go ahead, Harry.
(A fissure forms and an alien flies towards Kim. It screeches at him a bit, then leaves.)
JANEWAY: Raise shields.
KIM: If they understood our message, they haven't responded.
JANEWAY: There's your response. Activate another deflector pulse.
TUVOK: Shields are holding at sixty two percent.
JANEWAY: That should buy us another few minutes of peace and quiet. I suggest we make the most of it. Focus your efforts on repairing the warp drive. We've got to find the Equinox.
CHAKOTAY: If it's all the same to you, I'd like to take another stab at the message. If we can reroute
JANEWAY: They're not listening, Chakotay. We should be tracking Ransom, not tinkering with adverbs.

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: Want your First Officer's advice?
JANEWAY: Allow me. Our deflector's losing power, and when it fails, we'll be defenceless. It's Voyager we should be worrying about, not the Equinox.
CHAKOTAY: You'd make a great First Officer. It's advice worth taking.
JANEWAY: Maybe so, but we have a crew member trapped on that ship.
CHAKOTAY: Is this really about Seven, or is it about Ransom?
JANEWAY: I don't know what you're talking about.
CHAKOTAY: You've been known to hold a grudge. This man betrayed Starfleet, he broke the Prime Directive, dishonoured everything you believe in, and threw Voyager to the wolves.
JANEWAY: Borg, Hirogen, Malon. We've run into our share of bad guys. Ransom's no different.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, he is. You said it yourself. He's human. I don't blame you for being angry, but you can't compromise the safety of this ship to satisfy some personal vendetta.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your candour. Now let me be just as blunt. You're right, I am angry. I'm damned angry. He's a Starfleet Captain, and he's decided to abandon everything this uniform stands for. He's out there right now, torturing and murdering innocent lifeforms just to get home a little quicker. I'm not going to stand for it. I'm going to hunt him down no matter how long it takes, no matter what the cost. If you want to call that a vendetta, go right ahead.

[Equinox Bridge]

(Equinox orbits a planet.)
BURKE: Why did you bring us here?
RANSOM: This planet has a parthogenic atmosphere. It will keep us from being detected while we make repairs.
LESSING: We also found a few deuterium deposits.
RANSOM: Take an away team, Noah, and see if you can localise the ore.
BURKE: You won't be protected from the aliens. Arm yourselves with phasers. At the first sign of trouble, we'll beam you back.
LESSING: Aye, sir.

[Equinox Sickbay]

(To the tune of Dem Bones, the evil EMH has opened up half of Seven's face to get at the whole of her cortical implant.)
EMH: The ocular node's connected to the sensory node. The sensory node's connected to the cortical node. The cortical node's connected to the reticular node. Don't look so gloomy. There's a silver lining to all this. Just think, we're finally going to see Earth.
SEVEN: You are obviously delusional. Allow me to repair your programme.
EMH: Now why would I want you to do that? You of all people should understand. Being unfettered by ethical subroutines has made me far more efficient.
(Ransom enters.)
RANSOM: Status?
EMH: I'm going to extract her cortical array. It contains an index of her memory engrams. But once I've removed it her higher brain functions, language, cognitive skills will be severely damaged.
RANSOM: Tell me the codes.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Janeway was right about one thing. You are unique. It would be a shame to lose you.
SEVEN: Your compassion is irrelevant.
RANSOM: You think this is easy for me? The sight of you on that table. But you're leaving me no choice.
SEVEN: No choice. You say that frequently. You destroy lifeforms to attain your goals, then claim that they left you no choice. Does that logic comfort you?
RANSOM: The codes.
SEVEN: You'll have to destroy me to obtain them.
(Ransom nods and leaves. The EMH resumes his song.)
EMH: The reticular node's connected to the occipital node.

Captain's log, supplemental. Our warp drive's back online, but repeated sensor sweeps have failed to locate the Equinox.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me?
JANEWAY: It's not like you to submit recommendations in writing.
CHAKOTAY: The last time we spoke you weren't exactly receptive.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I'm not going to be very receptive this time, either. It's an interesting idea, but the Ankari are fifty light years in the wrong direction.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that, but they're the ones who introduced Ransom to these lifeforms. It stands to reason they might be able to communicate with them, tell them to call off their attacks.
JANEWAY: Our first priority is to find Ransom. Still no sign of nucleogenic particles?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Then he couldn't have gotten far. Without his enhanced drive, his ship's only capable of warp six. I've been studying his service record. He's had his share of run-ins with hostile aliens. It seems that when he's being pursued, he tends to hide. At Epsilon four he ran into a Klingon Bird-of-Prey. Played a game of cat and mouse for three days in a nebula before the Klingons finally gave up. Two years later, he eluded a Romulan Warbird by taking his vessel into the atmosphere of a gas giant. Go to Astrometrics. Start looking for the kind of place you'd hide if your ship was damaged.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.

[Equinox Bridge]

(Ransom retreats into his favourite fantasy again. Seven is there, in a pink dress. He removes the synaptic stimulator.)
GILMORE: How was the beach?
RANSOM: Do these programmes have people in them?
GILMORE: No, just landscapes. Why?
RANSOM: Forget it.

[Planet surface]    

LESSING: I'm reading a vein of ore. Azimuth one seventeen, thirty metres. It could run pretty deep. We might need to use phasers to excavate it. It's funny, this reminds me of McKinley Park. I used to take my sister there when we were kids. This place looks just like it. As I recall, there was a family of ground squirrels who lived right over there. There was a patch of poison ivy next to it. When I was ten, I walked right through it and I swelled up like a Rigellian bloodworm. When I get back to Earth the first thing I'm going to do is
(His companion gets knocked out by a rifle butt, and he gets stunned.)
CHAKOTAY: Four to beam up.

[Equinox Bridge]

GILMORE: We're receiving a subspace transmission.
RANSOM: From who?
GILMORE: I can't tell.
RANSOM: I don't see a ship out there. Open a channel.
E-EMH [OC]: Doctor to Equinox. Respond.
RANSOM: We can hear you.
E-EMH [OC]: Voyager's found you. They've entered orbit. They polarised their hull to mask their approach.

[Sickbay]

E-EMH: I believe they've planned an ambush on the away team.

[Equinox Bridge]

E-EMH [OC]: Janeway's been tracking the Equinox for a couple
RANSOM: Get him back.
GILMORE: I can't.
RANSOM: Ransom to away team. Noah, prepare to beam back to the ship.
GILMORE: They're not down there.
RANSOM: All hands to battle stations.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Thirty thousand kilometres and closing.
JANEWAY: Target their power core.

[Equinox Bridge]

GILMORE: Direct hit. Minor damage.
RANSOM: Return fire.

[Bridge]

(Whumph!)
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Torres. Status.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: I can't locate their shield grid generator. Can you divert more power to sensors?

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Stand by. 
TUVOK: They've damaged our deflector, Captain. If it goes offline, we'll be vulnerable to the alien attacks.
JANEWAY: Noted. Target his weapons array.

[Equinox Bridge]

GILMORE: We lost all phaser banks.
RANSOM: Torpedoes, full spread.
BURKE: It's B'Elanna. She's trying to bypass our security protocols.
RANSOM: Stop her.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Computer, open a comm. link to the Equinox. Workstation thirty three beta.

[Equinox Bridge]

TORRES [on monitor]: Max, listen to me.
BURKE: Back for round two, BLT?
TORRES [on monitor]: This isn't one of our games. People are dying over here.
BURKE: I wish you didn't have to be one of them.
TORRES: Max, please.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shields are weakening,
JANEWAY: We've almost got him. Keep targeting their weapons array. One more torpedo ought to do it.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Fire!

[Equinox Bridge]

GILMORE: Weapons are down!
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Ransom. Surrender your vessel.
RANSOM: We still have thrusters, don't we?
GILMORE: Aye, sir.
RANSOM: Lay in a course through the planet's atmosphere. Sixty degree vector.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What the hell is he doing? Follow him.
PARIS: We're crossing the upper thermosphere.
JANEWAY: Phasers. 
TUVOK: Shields are weakening. Thirty one percent, twenty nine.
KIM: Inertial dampers are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if we loose our shields, we'll be attacked by the aliens. Captain!
JANEWAY: Break off pursuit.

[Equinox Bridge]

GILMORE: They're retreating.
RANSOM: Take us up!
BURKE: They took heavy damage. Shields, propulsion.
RANSOM: Get us out of here.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They've gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Match their course and speed.
KIM: We can't, not until we restore primary systems.
JANEWAY: Time?
KIM: We'll need a few hours.
JANEWAY: At least we didn't come away empty-handed.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: I want Ransom's tactical status. I want it now, Mister Lessing.
LESSING: Or what, you'll hit me?
JANEWAY: No, crewman. I'll drop the shields around this room and let your little friends come pay you a visit.
LESSING: That would be murder.
JANEWAY: You could also call it poetic justice.
LESSING: I suppose the plan is that you're going to come to my rescue now, right?
CHAKOTAY: There's no plan as far as I know. The captain's on her own.
JANEWAY: Ransom's status, now.
LESSING: No way in hell.
JANEWAY: We all make our own hell, Mister Lessing. I hope you enjoy yours. The comm. is active. We'll be outside if you have a change of heart.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: Weren't you listening?
CHAKOTAY: Don't do this.
JANEWAY: He'll break.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Bridge to the Captain. We've lost shields in section twenty nine alpha.
JANEWAY [OC]: I know. Stand by.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: He's a loyal officer. He's not going to betray his captain. Put up the shields.
JANEWAY: He'll break.
CHAKOTAY: Captain!
JANEWAY: As you were.
(Chakotay tries to put up the shields.)
COMPUTER: Level nine authorisation required.
CHAKOTAY: Damn it, Kathryn!
JANEWAY: You're panicking. He's going to talk.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, a fissure is opening in that section.
JANEWAY [OC]: Understood.
(Chakotay goes into Cargo Bay two, drives back the alien and brings Lessing out.)

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Okay, you've demonstrated your loyalty to your captain. Fine. Now let's talk about the Ankari.
(Janeway walks away, grim-faced.)

[Briefing room]

TORRES: If there's an Ankari vessel less than two light years from here, why haven't we detected it?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently, they use a unique form of propulsion, which makes them hard to find.
PARIS: You think they'll be willing to help us?
CHAKOTAY: It's worth a try. Mister Lessing has agreed to show you how to adjust the sensors. Once you find the Ankari ship, set a course.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
E-EMH: Did our prisoner disclose any other information?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid not. The rest of you continue with the repairs. Dismissed.
JANEWAY: Commander.
(Chakotay stays behind.)
JANEWAY: All right, we're going to try it your way. But I want to make one thing clear.
CHAKOTAY: Our first priority is to get Ransom. If there's one thing you've made clear, it's that.
JANEWAY: We've had our disagreements, Chakotay, but you've never openly opposed me.
CHAKOTAY: You almost killed that man today.
JANEWAY: It was a calculated risk and I took it.
CHAKOTAY: It was a bad call.
JANEWAY: I'll note your objection in my log.
CHAKOTAY: I don't give a damn about your log. This isn't about rules and regulations. It's about right and wrong. And I'm warning you, I won't let you cross that line again.
JANEWAY: Then you leave me no choice. You are hereby relieved of duty until further notice.
CHAKOTAY: What's happened to you, Kathryn?
JANEWAY: I was about to ask you the same question.

[Bridge]

(Voyager is chasing an Ankari vessel.)
TUVOK: They are not responding.
JANEWAY: Tractor beam.
TUVOK: Captain, the Ankari ship has done nothing
JANEWAY: Just do it.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ANKARI [on viewscreen]: Starfleet.
JANEWAY: Yes.
ANKARI [on viewscreen]: Leave us alone. There's nothing of value on our ship.
JANEWAY: We need your guidance. Your spirits of good fortune are attacking us.
ANKARI [on viewscreen]: Of course they are. You've been killing them.
JANEWAY: We are not the ones responsible.
ANKARI [on viewscreen]: Equinox.
JANEWAY: That's right. Can you communicate with the aliens?
ANKARI [on viewscreen]: Release my ship.
JANEWAY: I can't do that. Not until you agree to talk to them.
ANKARI [on viewscreen]: I will summon them, but you must talk to them. You must convince them.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The summoning device brings three aliens into the bay.)
ANKARI: They say they want the humans to die.
TUVOK: A difficult place to start a negotiation.
JANEWAY: Will they understand me?
ANKARI: Yes.
JANEWAY: We didn't do this to you. We're trying to stop the humans who did.
ANKARI: They don't believe you would harm your own kind.
JANEWAY: We have rules for behaviour. The Equinox has broken those rules by killing your species. It's our duty to stop them.
ANKARI: Give us the Equinox. Give us the Equinox. They insist on destroying the ones who are responsible.
TUVOK: We will punish them according to our own rules. They will be imprisoned. They will lose their freedom.
JANEWAY: All right! If you stop your attacks, I'll deliver the Equinox to you.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing, Tuvok.
TUVOK: These beings would destroy Captain Ransom and his crew.
JANEWAY: What's their answer?
TUVOK: Your behaviour is irrational. We could find another solution.
JANEWAY: I've already confined my First Officer to quarters. Would you like to join him? Well?
ANKARI: They agree,

[Equinox Bridge]

BURKE: We're going to need more fuel. We've only got enough left to jump another five hundred light years.
RANSOM: Fuel. Is that the euphemism we're using now? You mean we need to kill more lifeforms.
BURKE: Several more.

[Equinox Sickbay]

(Another sing-song is in progress.)
EMH: Oh, my darling, Oh, my darling, Oh, my darling
SEVEN: Clementine.
RANSOM: How much longer?
EMH: Another hour, maybe less. You are lost and gone forever
SEVEN: Dreadful sorry, Clementine.
RANSOM: What are you doing?
EMH: Her auditory processor. We used to practice duets together. In fact, I taught her this old chestnut. Light she was and like a fairy.
SEVEN: And her shoes were number nine.
EMH: Herring boxes without topses.
SEVEN: Sandals were for Clementine.
EMH: Drove she ducklings to the water
RANSOM: Enough.
EMH: Why the long face, Captain? You're about to get your crew home. She tried to stand in your way. You had no choice.
RANSOM: No choice. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: When this is all over, perhaps you'll allow me to teach you my repertoire. I'm going to need a new partner.
(Ransom leaves.)
EMH: Hmm. Drove she ducklings to the water.

[Equinox - Ransom's quarters]

(Ransom puts on his synaptic stimulator. Seven is standing on a rocky outcrop, only she is completely human.)
RANSOM: You. What are you doing here?
SEVEN [in his mind]: Hiding, like you.
RANSOM: I'm not hiding.
SEVEN [in his mind]: It's beautiful. I can see why this brings you comfort.
RANSOM: I don't know what you're talking about.
SEVEN [in his mind]: But it isn't real.
RANSOM: You're not real. Now leave me alone.
SEVEN [in his mind]: It's not too late to stop.
RANSOM: I don't have a choice.
SEVEN [in his mind]: Find another way.
RANSOM: There is no other way.
SEVEN [in his mind]: Stop trying to hide.
RANSOM: I told you, I'm not hiding. Now get away from me.
SEVEN [in his mind]: End this.
RANSOM: No!
(The image of Seven morphs into an alien. He rips off the stimulator.)
BURKE [OC]: Bridge to Ransom.
RANSOM: Go ahead.
BURKE [OC]: Janeway's found us.
RANSOM: On my way.

[Equinox Bridge]

BURKE: Distance?
GILMORE: Fifty thousand kilometres, closing fast.
BURKE: Maintain course. Voyager's approaching at high warp. There's a class two nebula less than a light year from here. Janeway's sensors won't be able to track us once we're inside. I think that we should pursue this course.
RANSOM: No. Open a channel.
BURKE: Change of tactics?
RANSOM: You might say that. It's time we found another way home.
BURKE: Another way?
RANSOM: We're going to cooperate with Janeway, Max, if she's willing.
BURKE: Rudy, with all due respect, have you lost your mind?
RANSOM: Just the opposite.
GILMORE: They're within range. They're charging weapons.
RANSOM: Hail them.
BURKE: Belay that order. Raise shields.
RANSOM: You're relieved of duty, Commander.
BURKE: I'm taking command. Anyone who isn't with me, speak up now. Take him to the brig.
(Burke takes Ransom's phaser.)
GILMORE: I'm sorry.
(Gilmore escorts Ransom off the bridge.)
BURKE: What's the status of our weapons?
THOMPSON: Full complement of torpedoes. Minimal phasers.
BURKE: Open a secure channel to their Sickbay. Stand by weapons.
THOMPSON: Aye, sir.

[Medical lab]

(Subspace comm protocols 047. The Equinox EMH answers the beeps.)
E-EMH: I'm here.

[Equinox Bridge]

BURKE: We're going to need your help, Doctor. See if you can find Voyager's current shield frequency.

[Medical lab]

E-EMH: Acknowledged. I'll need a few minutes.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: They are firing torpedoes.
KIM: Direct hit to our port shields. They're holding.
JANEWAY: Return the favour.

[Equinox Engineering]

RANSOM: This isn't the brig.
GILMORE: I know. I'm with you, sir. Let's find a way to end this.
RANSOM: We'll need to access transporter control.

[Bridge]

(Voyager continues to throw photon torpedoes at Equinox.)
KIM: We've damaged their port nacelle. They're venting plasma.
PARIS: They're dropping out of warp.
JANEWAY: Stay with them.

[Equinox Bridge]

E-EMH [OC]: Doctor to Equinox. I've got their shield frequency.

[Medical lab]

E-EMH: I'm transmitting it to you now.
BURKE [OC]: They'll try to remodulate. Keep monitoring.
E-EMH: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]

TORRES: They've slowed to one quarter impulse.
JANEWAY: Prepare a tractor beam.
TUVOK: They are launching another torpedo.
JANEWAY: Full power to the forward shields.
(Big Whumph!)
KIM: Hull breach on deck four.
TORRES: How'd they get through our shields?
JANEWAY: Hard about. Get us out of range. Remodulate the shields.

[Equinox Bridge]

THOMPSON: They're retreating.
BURKE: Pursuit course. Maintain fire.

[Bridge]

KIM: They took out the weapons array.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I've been rotating the shield frequency every ten seconds.
PARIS: We've lost impulse engines.
KIM: We're being hailed. It's Ransom.
JANEWAY: Put him through.
RANSOM [on viewscreen]: Captain, I'm prepared to surrender the Equinox, but I'm no longer in command. Max decided to stage a little mutiny, but I think I can stop him. I've isolated transporter control. I can beam all of us to Voyager. You might want to have some guards standing by. Not everyone here is going to be happy to see you.
JANEWAY: Proceed.
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: He's still a Starfleet captain. He may have forgotten that for a while, but I believe him.

[Equinox Bridge]

BURKE: Someone's trying to beam us off. Forcefields.

[Equinox Engineering]

GILMORE: They're deflecting our targeting scanners.
RANSOM: Then beam the others to Voyager, yourself included. I'll take care of Max.
GILMORE: Aye, sir.
RANSOM: Computer, Give me access to the shield grid.

[Sickbay]

(Seven is amongst those beamed into a transporter room.)
EMH: Well, I see you've made yourself at home.
E-EMH: What are you doing here?
EMH: Taking back my Sickbay.
E-EMH: Stop where you are. I've planted photonic charges throughout these holo-projectors. With one command sequence, I can blow out your entire
EMH: Computer, delete the Equinox EMH.

[Equinox Bridge]

THOMPSON: The Doctor's not transmitting anymore.
BURKE: Burke to Doctor, report.
EMH [OC]: I'm afraid your physician's no longer on call.
RANSOM [OC]: Max, this is the Captain. I've dropped the shield grid

[Equinox Engineering]

RANSOM: Everywhere except the bridge and my current location.

[Equinox Bridge]

RANSOM [OC]: The vital systems are exposed.

[Equinox Engineering]

RANSOM: I suggest you beam to Voyager while you still can.
(Aliens enter Engineering.)

[Equinox Bridge]

THOMPSON: The core is overloading. We've got to get out of here.
BURKE: Where? Voyager's brig?
THOMPSON: It's better than being vaporised.
BURKE: We still have a working shuttle.
THOMPSON: The shuttle bay's two decks down. Sir, the aliens!
BURKE: We'll make it.

[Equinox Corridor]

(Burke shoots at two forming fissures.)
BURKE: This way.
(More fissures form both in front and behind the four people. They are overwhelmed and killed.)

[Bridge]

KIM: There's only one life sign left. It's Ransom.
JANEWAY: Captain.
RANSOM [on viewscreen]: Things didn't work out exactly as I planned, but you've got everyone worth getting.
JANEWAY: We're beaming you out of there.
RANSOM [on viewscreen]: This ship is about to explode. I've got to put some distance between us. I've accessed helm control.
JANEWAY: You can set auto-navigation and then transport to Voyager.
RANSOM [on viewscreen]: There's no time! You've got a fine crew, Captain. Promise me you'll get them home.
JANEWAY: I promise.
(Transmission ends. They watch the one-engined Equinox fly away, venting plasma. Ransom retreats into his favourite fantasy, then Equinox goes KaBOOM!)

Captain's log, supplemental. With the Equinox destroyed, the aliens have withdrawn to their realm. I've reinstated Chakotay and we've set a course for home.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Good as new. I'd like you to regenerate for the next few hours. It'll help stabilise your cortical array.
SEVEN: Understood.
EMH: Regarding the unpleasantness aboard the Equinox. I hope you don't think less of me.
SEVEN: Your programme was altered.
EMH: It's quite disconcerting to know that all someone has to do is flick a switch to turn me into Mister Hyde.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should enhance your programme with security protocols. It will prevent such tampering in the future.
EMH: Good thinking.
SEVEN: When I'm done regenerating, I will assist you.
EMH: Thanks.
SEVEN: You were off-key.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: My Darling Clementine, third verse, second measure.
EMH: That's impossible.
SEVEN: Your vocal modulations deviated by point three zero decihertz. I can assist you with that as well.
EMH: Really? Holodeck two, tomorrow, sixteen hundred hours. Just you, me, and a tuning fork.
SEVEN: I look forward to it.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: The last time we welcomed you aboard, you took advantage of our trust. You betrayed this crew. I won't make that mistake again. Noah Lessing, Marla Gilmore, James Morrow, Brian Sofin, Angelo Tassoni, you are hereby stripped of rank. You'll be expected to serve as crewmen on this vessel. Your privileges will be limited, and you'll serve under close supervision for as long as I deem fit. This time, you'll have to earn our trust. Dismissed.
(The former Equinox crew leave with Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: Repairs?
CHAKOTAY: Coming along.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: How's the crew?
CHAKOTAY: A lot of frayed nerves. Neelix is organising a potluck to help boost morale.
JANEWAY: Will I see you there?
CHAKOTAY: I'm replicating the salad.
JANEWAY: I'll bring the croutons. Chakotay. You know, you may have had good reason to stage a little mutiny of your own.
CHAKOTAY: The thought had occurred to me, but that would have been crossing the line.
JANEWAY: Will you look at that?
(Voyager's dedication plaque is on the deck.)
JANEWAY: All these years, all these battles. This thing's never fallen down before.
CHAKOTAY: Let's put it back up where it belongs.


S6 E2
Survival Instinct
Stardate: 53049.2
Original Airdate: 25 September 1999

[Planet surface]
(Birds fly into the air of a purple-skied planet as a small Borg Sphere crashes into a swampy area. Its four survivors clamber from the wreckage.)
TWO OF NINE: Input failure.
FOUR OF NINE: Input failure.
THREE OF NINE: Input failure.
SEVEN OF NINE: Our link to the Collective has been severed. Initiate secondary protocols. The vessel's transwarp chamber is approaching critical pressure. We must evacuate this area.
ALL: Agreed.
TWO OF NINE: No directional coordinates available.
SEVEN OF NINE: That way. Bearing three zero one.
ALL: Agreed:
SEVEN OF NINE: Bring that drone.

Captain's log: stardate 53049.2. We've docked at the Markonian outpost and agreed to mutual visits, so I'm allowing shore leave to anyone who wants it. Commander Tuvok has objected to taking on too many visitors, but security issues aside, I'm looking forward to a cultural exchange, and making some new friends.

[Ready room]

(Voyager is docked at a space station or drift. Chakotay carries a strange object with four hinged arms through the bridge, trying not to hit anyone with their tennis racket style ends as they flap around.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
(There is a large plant on her desk, others by the window and many more bits and pieces scattered around the room.)
JANEWAY: I'll be right with you. The station manager didn't tell me the vines were prehensile. I went to put some water in the pot and it grabbed me.
CHAKOTAY: This is a gift from the Kinbori delegation. I don't know its name, only that it's used in one of their sacred games and it's very heavy.
JANEWAY: Put it down anywhere. Thank the Kinbori for me and give them a token of our esteem.
(She hands Chakotay a book.)
CHAKOTAY: I already gave them a Voyager medallion. They seemed appreciative.
JANEWAY: Come in. Doesn't it look like Christmas morning in here, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You have to admit the generosity of our guests is very impressive.
TUVOK: As is their proclivity for criminal behaviour. This morning's security report.
JANEWAY: A broken ODN line, some missing personal items, a damaged scanner relay. All in all, not that bad.
TUVOK: There is a second page to the report.
JANEWAY: Oh. Some of these incidents are a little more serious but, on balance, I still think we did the right thing.
TUVOK: There is a third page.
CHAKOTAY: Come on, Tuvok. After all the xenophobic races we've run into, don't you find it just a little refreshing to meet some people who value openness and freedom?
JANEWAY: Well as far as I'm concerned, opening the ship has been a fascinating experience and an unqualified success. I'm very pleased.
CHAKOTAY: Me too.
TUVOK: I am pleased that you are pleased. If you'll excuse me.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok. Please accept this token of our esteem.  
(Tuvok declines with a Look and leaves.)
JANEWAY: Ooh, ow! It's got me by the hair!

[Astrometrics lab]

NAOMI: Now it's twelve forty five.
SEVEN: If you're hungry you may eat without me.
NAOMI: You said we'd have lunch together.
SEVEN: I haven't completed my analysis of the station's power conversion matrix.
NAOMI: How long is it going to take?
SEVEN: Several hours.
NAOMI: Seven, you promised.
SEVEN: Very well.

[Corridor]

NAOMI: I think it's even more crowded than this morning.
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Excuse us. Excuse us. Please, we're trying to get through to the turbolift. Excuse us.
SEVEN: Stand aside!
NAOMI: Thank you.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: I'm sorry, but there's no more Marsupial surprise. We only had two kilos of pouches to begin with, and it's all gone. Now how about some pizza, huh?
NAOMI: She's a Shivolian, right?
SEVEN: Correct.
NAOMI: Species five two one?
SEVEN: Your mother would not approve of you memorising Borg designations. I don't approve either. We've discussed the impropriety of you emulating the Borg.
NAOMI: Sorry.
SEVEN: I'm finished.
NAOMI: We just sat down.
SEVEN: I do not enjoy crowds.
NAOMI: But you were in the Collective. Wasn't that like a big crowd?
SEVEN: Which is why I do not enjoy them now.
NAOMI: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't realise that. Let's go.
(A man with a cross scar below one eye comes up to the table.)
TWO: Excuse me. Are you Seven of Nine?
SEVEN: Yes.
(He opens a case. Seven stands and staggers back a couple of steps. She remembers the crash from the teaser.)
NAOMI: You okay?
SEVEN: These are Borg synaptic relays from my original Unimatrix.
NAOMI: These are yours?
SEVEN: Where did you acquire them?
TWO: A trader from Orendal Five. I was told you are a former Borg drone and might be interested in acquiring these pieces.
SEVEN: I'll take them. Captain Janeway will provide you with whatever monetary reimbursement you require.
TWO: Agreed.
SEVEN: I must examine these items more closely.
NAOMI: Okay.
(Seven leaves with the case.)
NAOMI: What's your name?
(Two walks away.)
NAOMI: That was rude.
TWO OF NINE [OC]: Stage two is complete. She has the relays.

[Engineering]

TWO [OC}: She's going to study them.
(A woman with no obvious scars receives his message.)
THREE [OC]: Her regeneration alcove is in Cargo Bay Two.

[Corridor]

(A younger man joins the conversation.)
FOUR [OC]: That's where she'll go. We should prepare for stage three.

[Engineering]

THREE [OC]: Agreed.

[Mess hall]

TWO [OC]: There's consensus. Rendezvous at my coordinates and stand by to penetrate their security.

[Planet surface]

(Back in the past, items are  being extracted from the dead drone.)
FOUR OF NINE: Error.
SEVEN OF NINE: Explain.
FOUR OF NINE: We shouldn't be desecrating the body of this drone. It is against the will of Brothara.
THREE OF NINE: Who is Brothara?
TWO OF NINE: Brothara. Supernatural deity worshipped by species five seven one.
FOUR OF NINE: I am a member of species five seven one.
SEVEN OF NINE: You're being confused by irrelevant data. Ignore it.
THREE OF NINE: You said I am a member of species five seven one. Do you consider yourself an individual?
SEVEN OF NINE: There are no individuals here. We are Borg.
ALL: Agreed.
SEVEN OF NINE: Resume constructing the communications beacon.
(But Four and Two are bothered by this turn of events.)

[Cargo Bay two]

(Fashion note - this season, Torres has curled her hair.)
TORRES: It looks like a standard Borg synaptic relay.
SEVEN: There must be something more. When I first came into contact with it, I was overwhelmed with images, memories, sounds.
TORRES: Sounds like a perfectly natural reaction to me. That was part your old unimatrix, right? Well, isn't it at least possible that what you experienced was simply nostalgia? You know, sentimental feelings about the past.
SEVEN: I know what nostalgia is, but I have no feelings about the past.
TORRES: Okay. I think I've done all I can here.
SEVEN: Lieutenant. You were trying to help. I appreciate that.
TORRES: Anytime. Oh, and, er, you may not be nostalgic about the past, but I'd say you definitely have feelings about it. Strong ones.

[Mess hall]

(All three ex-Borg are seated at a table.)
TWO [OC]: Their security protocols are formidable. We may not have enough time.
FOUR [OC]: I'm worried about Seven of Nine. We should re-examine the question of simply asking
THREE [OC]: You know what her reactions will be. She won't help us because she
TWO [OC]: We've been through all that.
FOUR [OC] She could be permanently injured. I don't want to harm her.
TWO: Enough!
THREE: I need consensus.
TWO: We can't act without it.
FOUR: I know.
TWO: So then it's up to you. Do we proceed or not?
FOUR: Yes. We, I apologise for my indecision.
THREE: Apologies are irrelevant.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Computer, begin multi-polar analysis.
COMPUTER: Analysis underway.
SEVEN: Time to completion?
COMPUTER: Five hours, seventeen minutes.

[Mess hall]

TWO: She's regenerating.
THREE: Begin rerouting their internal sensors.
FOUR [OC]: Rerouting sensor input to secondary processors.
(On the bridge, Tuvok detects something going on.)

[Turbolift]

(Two, Three and Four are left alone.)
THREE: Hold.
(Two opens the roof hatch.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: What have you got?
TUVOK: There's a power fluctuation in the security grid.
(Seven's former colleagues make their way through Jefferies tubes to Cargo Bay two. Janeway is called to the bridge.)
CHAKOTAY: All we know is that we've got a security breach. We don't know where.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Two removes a bandage from his hand and taps the back of it.)
TWO: Ready. Insert the interlink module.
(Three removes the module from her leg and attaches it to Seven's regeneration chamber.)
THREE: Ready.
(Four hesitates.)
TWO: He's still worried about injuring her.
THREE: If we fail, we'll never become individuals. We have to remember that.
TWO: There is consensus. (Two injects his tubules into Seven's neck.)
TWO:  I've found her memory files.
THREE: She's aware of our presence.
TWO: She's trying to regain consciousness.
FOUR: We must abort.
THREE: No! We're too close.
(Seven wakes.)
SEVEN: I will not comply.
(She knocks Two away, disconnecting him. Tuvok and security run in to stun them with phaser fire.)

[Planet surface]

(Nighttime. The Borgs have built a campfire, and Four is roasting a piece of meat from their dead colleague over it. Seven reaches out and warms her hands.)
SEVEN OF NINE: I have performed this action before. I was with my father. He was a tall man.
TWO OF NINE: I have a similar memory. But I was in a house and the fire was in the hearth.
FOUR OF NINE: The biomatter is ready.
(They each take a piece.)
THREE OF NINE: It tastes similar to a bird I once ate.
FOUR OF NINE: I used to prepare food for my parents. They lived in a small building by a river.
SEVEN OF NINE: I used to be afraid of the dark.
TWO OF NINE: Just before I was assimilated, I was eating with a group of men. We worked in numbers. Mathematics. I calculated equations for another man.
THREE OF NINE: I have a name. It's Marika. Marika Willkarah. Willkarah.
TWO OF NINE: Hello, Marika Willkarah.
SEVEN OF NINE: Her designation is Three of Nine.
FOUR OF NINE: I have a name. P'Chan. Son of Dornar and Ansha. My primary function was to care for them.
THREE OF NINE: I was married. We were on a starship, the Excalibur. I worked in Engineering.
TWO OF NINE: This is not my hand.
FOUR OF NINE: My parents are dead. The Borg killed them. I hate the Borg.
SEVEN OF NINE: This is counterproductive. We must delete all irrelevant data.
TWO OF NINE: I want my hand back.
THREE OF NINE: I was on duty, the night watch, when the Borg came. Oh, my God, look at what they've done to me. These, these things they put in my body. What have they done?
SEVEN OF NINE: Command override. Cease this interaction. Comply! We will not access these memory files again. Initiate the prescribed maintenance and survival protocols only. No further communication is required until we are r-assimilated into the Collective.
TWO OF NINE: Agreed.
THREE OF NINE: Agreed.
FOUR OF NINE: Agreed.

[Sickbay]

(The three ex-Borg are unconscious on biobeds.)
EMH: But whoever removed their implants was a poor surgeon. Their internal organs were damaged during the procedure and their bodies are covered with scars.
JANEWAY: You said you recognised them.
SEVEN: Not at first. But when they attempted to access my memory files I was momentarily linked with them. Two of Nine. Three of Nine. Four of Nine. We were all members of the same Unimatrix.
JANEWAY: Do you know why they were trying to access your memories?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: How long have they been disconnected from the Collective?
EMH: Three or four months. However, they are still connected to each other. Somehow, the left parietal lobes of their brains have been transformed into organic interlink nodes. They've become linked together into a sort of Collective Triad.
JANEWAY: Revive them. I'm Captain Janeway. We know who you are and we know what you were trying to do. What we don't know is why.
TWO: She has information we need.
JANEWAY: What kind of information?
TWO: We want to become
THREE: Individuals.
JANEWAY: You want to break the neural link between the three of you?
THREE: Wouldn't you? None of us is alone with our own thoughts, our own feelings.
TWO: Every day of my life is spent hearing their two voices in my head.
FOUR: When we're asleep, we experience each other's dreams.
EMH: How's that different from life in the Collective?
SEVEN: In the Collective there are billions of voices. They become white noise.
TWO: But, with only three
THREE: Each voice comes through clearly.
FOUR: It has to stop. We must break the neural link.
JANEWAY: Doctor, is there anything you can do?
EMH: The modifications are too extensive. Their neuronal pathways have been fundamentally altered.
TWO: You hold the key.
SEVEN: Why?
THREE: You were there with us.
FOUR: Planet one eight six five alpha. You must remember.
SEVEN: Eight years ago our vessel crashed. The four of us were the only survivors.
TWO: When we were reassimilated
THREE: We found we'd been linked together somehow.
FOUR: We were a subset within the Collective.
TWO: It's like having three voices whispering in one ear
THREE: And a crowd screaming in the other
FOUR: We had to break free, so we worked together. We finally escaped.
TWO: We had our implants removed on Inavar Prime.
THREE: But they couldn't break the neural link.
FOUR: We need to find out what happened eight years ago, after the crash.
TWO: The night we were reassimilated into the Collective. We need to know how the link was created, but our memories are
THREE: Fragmented, disorganised. We hoped that you would know.
SEVEN: I don't. However, I am willing to attempt to retrieve the data. Come with me.

[Cargo Bay two]

(A data cable is plugged into the back of Four's head.)
SEVEN: Are you ready?
FOUR: Yes.
SEVEN: Data search complete. Do you remember anything further?
FOUR: No. My last memory
THREE: Is of us standing
ALL: Around the campfire.
SEVEN: And yet the data files in your cortical processor appear to be intact. I see no evidence that would explain your lapse in memory.
TWO: What about you? Why don't you remember what happened?
SEVEN: I don't know. I've found no evidence of damage to my memory files either. I remember the campfire and then waking up in the Collective. There is an obvious gap, but no indication of why.
TWO: Why do they still call you Seven? You should have a name.
SEVEN: It is my name.
FOUR: No. It's a designation. You're an individual now.
SEVEN: I decided that my former name was no longer appropriate. Prepare to reinitialise the memory cascade.
THREE: I can't wait to use my real name again.
SEVEN: There is nothing preventing you from doing so.
TWO: Except that most of the time I don't know whether my name is Marika, P'Chan or Lansor. The names, the memories
FOUR: The memories, even the thoughts flow from one to the other.
THREE: I can't love or hate or laugh.
ALL: Or cry without sharing it with them.
TWO: How can any of us take a name for
ALL: For ourselves?
FOUR: We're not individuals.
THREE: We're not Borg.
TWO: We're nothing.
SEVEN: Begin the memory cascade.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: A friendly game?
(Paris has a black eye.)
PARIS: Well, that's how it started.
(Kim has a cut lip.)
JANEWAY: I see. Perhaps you could explain to me how this friendly game turned into a street brawl?
PARIS: Well, Harry and I wanted to explore the station. We wanted to broaden our understanding of alien cultures and, er
JANEWAY: Skip the recruiting speech. You were looking for a bar. Then what?
KIM: Well, we found one, and we met a pair of Kinbori who told us about this game they play with these big, odd-looking rackets.
JANEWAY: You mean one of those?
BOTH: Yeah!
PARIS: In any case, they challenged us to a game and we accepted, but I guess we weren't quite aware of all the rules.
JANEWAY: Because you'd been drinking.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. You see, we thought it was a version of tennis, but as soon as we hit the first volley this Kinbori jumps over the net and starts attacking us with his racket.
KIM: So we figured we were supposed to fight back.
PARIS: Yeah.
KIM: And then, er, well, things got a little out of hand.
JANEWAY: A little out of hand? Seven Voyager crewmen, including two bridge officers, along with thirteen Kinbori and one Morphinian café owner, all arrested. The charges range from disorderly conduct to assault on a security officer.
KIM: That last one's not true.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Mister Kim. I'll note that exception in my log. You're both confined to quarters until further notice, after you report to Sickbay. That's all. Well, did you win?
PARIS: Oh yes, ma'am.
KIM: We kicked their rackets.
JANEWAY: Good. Dismissed.
(Paris and Kim leaves, Seven enters.)
JANEWAY: Any progress?
SEVEN: I've determined that we all have exactly the same gap in our memories. It seems unlikely that it would be a coincidence.
JANEWAY: So you believe the Collective deliberately wiped your recollections of the reassimilation process?
SEVEN: It is the most likely explanation.
JANEWAY: But?
SEVEN: The Collective would not care that four drones remember being reassimilated.
JANEWAY: Something must have happened during the process. Something they wanted to hide from you. Let's look at this from a different perspective. Why would the Collective lock them into a neural triad in the first place?
SEVEN: I don't know. There is no advantage to having three drones linked together in this manner.
JANEWAY: They obviously did it for some reason. And I get the feeling that if we can answer that question, the rest should fall into place. But I wish we could find a way to close the gaps in your memories.
SEVEN: There is a way.
JANEWAY: I assume there's a reason you didn't mention it before now?
SEVEN: It would involve linking my neural interface to theirs. Together, we may be able to restore the missing data. However, I would again be part of a group mind.
JANEWAY: You're not eager to revisit that experience, hmm?
SEVEN: There's also the possibility that I could become trapped in the neural link.
JANEWAY: Turning the triad into a quartet. I won't ask you to take that kind of risk.
SEVEN: I do feel compelled to help them, but I am uncertain as to the correct course of action.
JANEWAY: Let me ask you something. Do you think of these people as family?
SEVEN: Is it relevant?
JANEWAY: There's an old saying. Blood is thicker than water. It means that the ties of family run deeper than any other kind of relationship. We'll often do things for members of our family we'd never dream of doing for anyone else.

[Corridor]

NAOMI: Seven. Seven.
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I heard about the drones. Did they hurt you?
SEVEN: I am not damaged.
NAOMI: What do they want?
SEVEN: They are seeking information from me, but I am uncertain whether I can help them.
NAOMI: Oh. Be careful.
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, do you consider me to be family?
NAOMI: I, I don't, I mean. Yes. Is that okay?
SEVEN: I have no objection.
NAOMI: Do you think of me as family?
SEVEN: Yes.

Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine has decided to undergo the procedure that will link her mind with the other drones. Despite the risk involved, she feels an obligation to help these distant cousins.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: I'll be monitoring your neural readings while you're in the link, but I'm not certain I'll be able to counter the effects if you become trapped.
SEVEN: I know you'll do your best.
EMH: It's never a good sign when the patient feels the need to comfort the doctor. Good luck.
(All four drones step into alcoves.)
SEVEN: Ready?
TWO: Ready.
FOUR: Ready.
THREE: Ready.

[Planet surface]

(Seven is walking around, and find another drone.)
SEVEN OF NINE: You are damaged. I will assist you. Don't worry. Everything will be all right.
(The drone dies in her arms. She returns to the campfire.)
FOUR OF NINE: The Collective has located us. A Borg vessel is on its way.
SEVEN OF NINE: We will be one with the Borg again.
TWO OF NINE: No. I do not want to rejoin the Collective.
FOUR OF NINE: Agreed.
SEVEN OF NINE: That is in violation of all established protocols.
THREE OF NINE: Forget the protocols. You're not a drone. You're a person, like us.
FOUR OF NINE: You have a name, a life. All you have to do is embrace who you really are.
SEVEN OF NINE: No. I do not exist. I am only part of the greater whole.
TWO OF NINE: That's what they want you to believe. That's what they want us all to believe.
SEVEN OF NINE: We are Borg. Our primary function is to serve the Collective.
TWO OF NINE: Not anymore.
(Two smashes the communications beacon.)
SEVEN OF NINE: Error. Input failure.
TWO OF NINE: They may know what planet we're on, but without the beacon it'll be far more difficult to locate us.
THREE OF NINE: If we can remodulate our cortical implants, we might be able to elude their sensors.
TWO OF NINE: We must leave this place.
SEVEN OF NINE: This discussion is in violation of all established protocols.
THREE OF NINE: You stay here and be reassimilated if you want to. I won't.
(They leave Seven alone. She paces around as the camp fire dies. Later, she finds Four and stuns him. Then she inserts tubules into him.)
FOUR OF NINE: What are you doing?
SEVEN OF NINE: The nanoprobes will create new interlink nodes in your left hemisphere. Resistance is futile.
(A few moments later, he gets up and follows her. They find Two, and Seven does the same to him. They finally catch up to Three.)
THREE OF NINE: I will not comply. I will not comply.
(Seven injects her.)
SEVEN OF NINE: State your designations.
TWO OF NINE: Two of Nine. Primary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
THREE OF NINE: Three of Nine. Auxiliary processor of Unimatrix zero one.
FOUR OF NINE: Four of Nine. Secondary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
SEVEN OF NINE: What is your primary function?
ALL: To serve the Collective.
SEVEN OF NINE: You will repair the communications beacon.

[Cargo Bay two]

TWO: It was you. You were responsible. What have you done to us?
THREE: You linked us together.
FOUR: You're responsible for our suffering.
THREE: How could you do it?
TWO: If you didn't want to return to the Collective
THREE: You didn't have to.
SEVEN: You don't understand what happened.
(All three shout at her at the same time.)
SEVEN: Somebody help me!
(Tuvok enters.)
TUVOK: What's happening?
EMH: Somehow they broke their link with Seven. They're malfunctioning. Help me get them to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: When they broke the connection with you, it must have overloaded their cortical implants. They went into neural shock.
SEVEN: And yet I was undamaged?
EMH: I think I know why. You said you remembered injecting them with nanoprobes eight years ago.
SEVEN: Yes. It created an interlink between them. It was the only way to prevent them from escaping the Collective.
EMH: Well, it seems to have had an unfortunate side effect. Their higher brain functions were somehow tied into the interlink. When they broke their connection with you in the cargo bay, the shock to their cognitive systems was too great.
SEVEN: Can you revive them?
EMH: I can remove the microcortical implants. That would break the link binding them together, but it would also kill them. They'd only live a matter of weeks. A month at the most.
SEVEN: What are the other options?
EMH: They could be returned to the Borg. If they were reassimilated into the Collective, they would regain consciousness, and then live out a normal life span.
SEVEN: As drones.
EMH: As drones. But they'd be alive, Seven.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: They have no hope of surviving unless they return to the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: Not exactly a happy ending, is it?
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: Back on that planet, why do you think you reacted so differently from the rest of them? Why were you so afraid of becoming an individual?
SEVEN: When I was first assimilated into the Collective, I was a child. They were assimilated as adults. When our individual memories began to resurface
CHAKOTAY: Yours were of being a little girl. A scared little girl.
SEVEN: I let that fear control me. After I saw the drone die in the swamp, I panicked. I began to envision my own death. Alone, without even the sound of another drone to comfort me. So I forced them to return. I infiltrated their left cerebral hemispheres with nanoprobes and created a new interlink network. One that they couldn't resist. And then I eliminated the evidence of what I had done.
CHAKOTAY: You were overwhelmed by feelings you couldn't begin to understand. You're not responsible for that.
SEVEN: Because of what I did, they'll be forced to live the rest of their lives in the Collective. For that, I am responsible.
CHAKOTAY: There's a difference between surviving and living. They'll survive in the Collective, but they won't really be alive. You know that better than any of us.
SEVEN: There is no alternative.
CHAKOTAY: How long would they survive if the Doctor deactivated this interlink network you created?
SEVEN: A month at most.
CHAKOTAY: A month as an individual, or a lifetime as a drone. Which option would you choose?

[Doctor's office]

SEVEN: Survival is insufficient.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: Eight years ago, I forced them to return to the Collective. I won't make the same mistake again. They deserve to exist as individuals. We must terminate the link between them.
EMH: I understand that you feel a certain responsibility for these patients, but as their physician, so do I. It's my duty to preserve their lives for as long as possible, even if that means
SEVEN: I will not return them to the Borg.
EMH: Are you thinking of what's best for them, or for you?
SEVEN: Clarify.
EMH: You said it yourself. You made a mistake. And Seven of Nine doesn't like to make mistakes. She strives for perfection. I want you to think about the motivation behind your decision. Are you doing what's right for those three people, or are you trying to alleviate the guilt you feel over what happened eight years ago?
SEVEN: The damage I did can never be repaired, and my guilt is irrelevant. I simply want them to experience individuality, as I have. As you have. At one time, you were confined to this Sickbay. Your programme was limited to emergency medical protocols. In some ways, you were not unlike a drone. But you were granted the opportunity to explore your individuality. You were allowed to expand your programme. Your mobile emitter gives you freedom of movement. Your thoughts are your own. If you were told you had to become a drone again, I believe you would resist.
EMH: Yes. I suppose I would.
SEVEN: They would resist as well. They would choose freedom, no matter how fleeting. Only you and I can truly understand that.
EMH: Survival is insufficient.

[Mess hall]

(It is dark. The trio are standing by the windows. Seven is with them.)
THREE: It's so quiet.
FOUR: I had no idea you were going to say that. I don't know what either of you is thinking.
TWO: I'd forgotten what it was like to be alone with my own thoughts. I'm leaving.
THREE: Where will you go?
TWO: I want to see the space station, to meet new people. To fill my life with life again, in the time I have left.
(He nods a thank you to Seven, and leaves.)
FOUR: I'm leaving as well. There's an uninhabited planet only a few lightyears from here. I'd like to spend my final days in the open air.
(He hugs Three, then turns to Seven.)
FOUR: My people don't believe in holding grudges. I wish you well, Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Thank you.
(Four leaves.)
THREE: It's nice to be on a Federation Starship again. I'd like to stay aboard Voyager.
SEVEN: The Captain said you may stay as long as you wish.
THREE: You mean as long as I have. I can't forgive you for what you did to us, but I do understand why you did it.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I thought you might like some company.
SEVEN: Why?
NAOMI: Because of what happened with the drones.
SEVEN: I see that word travels quickly.
NAOMI: It's a small ship. I thought maybe you might want to spend some time with family.


S6 E3
Barge of the Dead
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 6 October 1999

[Shuttlecraft]
(Things are going Bang! behind Torres.)
TORRES: Torres to Voyager. I could use a little help here.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: What's your status?
TORRES: I'm approaching your position, but that ion storm blew out my deflector field. I've lost helm control and I'm venting plasma from the port nacelle.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're modifying a tractor pulse to slow you down.
TORRES: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: The arresting fields are in place. You're clear to land.
JANEWAY [OC]: Hold on, B'Elanna. This is going to be bumpy.
(The shuttlecraft bounces into the shuttlebay and skids to a halt. Not having any seatbelts, Torres lurches forward onto the console. Paris enters.)
PARIS: B'Elanna? Are you alive?
TORRES: You tell me.
PARIS: You've got a mild concussion.
TORRES: That's the best thing that's happened to me all day.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: When I give you an order, I expect you to follow it. I told you to return to Voyager, not chase the probe into the centre of an ion storm.
TORRES: We only have one multispatial probe. I didn't want to lose it.
JANEWAY: We only have one B'Elanna Torres. I don't want to lose her, either.
TORRES: Understood.
JANEWAY: Lanna, I'm glad you made it back in one piece,
TORRES: Did you just call me Lanna?
JANEWAY: I suppose I did.
TORRES: That's what my mother used to call me.
JANEWAY: Well then, I'm in good company.

[Torres' quarters]

TORRES: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Feeling better?
TORRES: I've felt worse.
CHAKOTAY: I found something you might be interested in. It's what my ancestors called a monkey wrench. It was lodged in your port nacelle.
TORRES: How did it get there?
CHAKOTAY: Judging by your sensor logs, it looks like you ran into it after your deflector field collapsed, but the big question is, how did it get in this quadrant?
TORRES: What do you mean? (She takes the piece of metal from Chakotay, and sees the insignia on it. A circle with one big elongated diamond and two small curved triangles sticking out from it.)
TORRES: What? It's Klingon!
CHAKOTAY: And it's old. That's about all we know. Looks like the Klingons beat Starfleet to the Delta Quadrant by a few hundred years. You may be holding the most important archaeological find in Klingon history.
TORRES: Remind me to plant a flag on behalf of the Empire. You know, the simplest explanation is that the Borg assimilated a Bird of Prey somewhere in the Alpha Quadrant and they blew it out an airlock on their way home.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. In any case, it makes a nice souvenir.
(Chakotay leaves it with her. Torres puts it down on a table and goes to the replicator. When she turns back, blood is pouring from the insignia. Then she hears a multitude of voices, until it all vanishes again.)

[Engineering]

(The metal is on a stand.)
TORRES: Harry, it bled. Ut screamed. There's got to be some explanation.
KIM: Hey, I've got one for you. You hit your head harder than you thought.
TORRES: I wasn't hallucinating. Now run a submolecular scan.
KIM: How many more scans are we going to run? There's nothing there. No fluid or vapour residue.
TORRES: We may find some irregularities at the atomic level.
KIM: It's a hunk of metal. What you heard may have had nothing to do with this artefact. Maybe the comm. system picked up some stray signal from a pulsar. I don't know.
TORRES: A pulsar that speaks Klingon?
KIM: Okay, B'Elanna, there probably is some explanation for what happened. But it's oh three hundred hours. I'm tired, you're tired. Let's just stick this thing in a containment field and deal with it in the morning.
NEELIX: Ah! Just the Daughter of the Empire I've been looking for. I wanted to be the first to congratulate you on your discovery of the Klingon artefact.
TORRES: Neelix, I ran into it with a shuttle.
NEELIX: Some of the greatest discoveries in Klingon history were accidents. When Sarpek the Fearless unearthed the Knife of Kirom he was searching for his lost targ. Isn't that amazing? I've been doing some research.
TORRES: Why?
NEELIX: Well, I'm planning a celebration. This must be the treasure.
TORRES: Neelix, look, I appreciate your enthusiasm, but since I'm the only Klingon on board, there's really no point in throwing a party.
NEELIX: Oh, nonsense. This artefact isn't just a testament to Klingon spirit. It's a piece of the Alpha Quadrant. A symbol of Voyager's home. And that's just as worthy of celebration and song as finding some old knife.
KIM: The man's got a point.
NEELIX: And besides, I've already replicated five barrels of bloodwine. I'm not going to let them go to waste. Festivities begin at nineteen hundred hours. Oh, er, I almost forgot. As guest of honour, you're going to be expected to say a few words on behalf of your people.
KIM: It sounds like you've got a big day ahead of you. You should probably get some rest.
TORRES: All right, all right, let's call it a night.
KIM: Thank you.

[Tuvok's quarters]

TUVOK: Do not underestimate the power of the mind. The artefact was a catalyst for your already active imagination. It served as an unwelcome reminder of your ancestry. The self-loathing you experience when you look in the mirror and see a Klingon.
TORRES: Who said anything about self-loathing?
TUVOK: You despise being Klingon. It's no secret. What you experienced in your quarters was a subconscious manifestation of that hatred. The blood in your veins, the voices of your ancestors, all symbols of your Klingon heritage.
TORRES: And when the blood disappeared that was, what, me trying to vaporise that part of myself?
TUVOK: Yes, but the essence of who you are, the artefact itself, remained.
TORRES: And the moral of the story is?
TUVOK: Quite simple. That despite your efforts to become something else, whether it be Starfleet or Maquis, your Klingon nature continues to assert itself.
TORRES: That's an intriguing theory.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should forego your meditation in favour of a different exercise.
TORRES: Fine by me. (Tuvok fetches a bat'leth.)
TORRES: This should be interesting.
TUVOK: Feel the weight of the bat'leth in your hands. Describe the first thought that enters your mind.
TORRES: It's a clumsy weapon. Overstated, like everything else Klingon.
TUVOK: You can't see the elegance of its design because of your hatred.
TORRES: I don't hate Klingons.
TUVOK: It's a warrior's blade, crafted for precision and balance. Observe.
(Tuvok twirls the big blade around his body and head, ending up with the long curved edge inches from Torres' neck. The final set of fast moves end up cutting her cheek.)
TORRES: Is this your idea of therapy?
TUVOK: Listen to yourself whine like a Ferengi.
TORRES: PetaQ!
TUVOK: You're not worthy of the blood in your veins. A true Klingon would try to kill me where I stand.
TORRES: What the hell has gotten into you?
TUVOK: This exercise is over. You are dismissed, Lieutenant, and take your dishonour with you.

[Mess hall]

(The EMH is singing a Klingon song when Torres enters.)
EMH: 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw. And the blood was ankle-deep. 'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ. And the river Skral ran crimson red.
SEVEN: I fail to see the merit of learning a Klingon drinking song.
EMH: It's not about drinking, Seven. It's about saluting the noble deeds of our ancestors and honouring those who fell in battle. Think, Qapla'. Think, long live the Empire!
SEVEN: Think again.
EMH: Okay, so I'm overdoing it a bit. But try to get into the spirit of the occasion.
SEVEN: Very well. 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw.
BOTH: 'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ 'e' pa' jaj law' mo' jaj puS jaj qeylIS molar MIgh HoHchu'. 
NEELIX: Gagh, anyone? Sop joq jih yuv gagh drek.
(The worms are just about moving.)
TORRES: He said, eat this or he'll force it down the gullet of your corpse.
NEELIX: No offence.
PARIS: Oh, none taken. So this is replicated, right?
NEELIX: Unfortunately.
PARIS: And how do you get it to move?
NEELIX: I used a kinesthetic agent to give it a little oomph.
TORRES: Is it just me, or has everyone gone Klingon-happy?
PARIS: Oh, come on, B'Elanna. They're all doing this for you.
TORRES: Well then, they don't know me very well, and if you even think of joining in on this embrace your heritage nonsense, I swear, I'll rip out your tongue and wear it as a belt.
PARIS: Oh no, there's not a lot of Klingon in you.
TORRES: I inherited the forehead and the bad attitude. That's it. She would have loved all this.
PARIS: Your mother?
TORRES: She was so obsessed with Klingon ritual, myths. It used to drive my father and me crazy. Did I ever tell you that she put me in a Klingon monastery?
PARIS: You're kidding.
TORRES: It was after their marriage ended. She pulled me out of the Federation school in order to teach me honour and discipline.
PARIS: Out of the plasma cooker, into the fire.
TORRES: She prayed to Kahless every day to guide me in the ways of the warrior. I guess he wasn't listening.
JANEWAY: Ladies and gentlemen. Could I have your attention, please? I hate to interrupt the festivities, but before I turn the floor over to our resident Klingon, I'd like to say a few words. This is a great day for the Klingon Empire. A day when we honour their ancestors, those warriors whose deeds of valour and glory led them to the Delta Quadrant.
(To Torres, Janeway's words get very, very slow. A red light is glowing behind her.)
JANEWAY: May they live on in song and story. (Torres turns to see an altar and a Klingon warrior with a bat'leth who walks past her. Another stands behind Janeway and raises a dagger.)
TORRES: Captain!
(The Klingon stabs Janeway in the back. The other slashes the EMH and Seven through the abdomen with the bat'leth. Chakotay and Kim die next, then finally Paris.)
BROK'TAN: Legh soh va gre'thor.
(He attacks Torres.)

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]

(Lightning flashes around with wooden ship.)
TORRES: Where am I?
BROK'TAN: Silence The dead ask no questions.
(Two Klingons haul Torres to her feet and hold her.)
TORRES: Computer, end programme.
BROK'TAN: Qem nuh meq.
TORRES: Let go of me!
(Another Klingon hands Brok'Tan a branding iron with the Klingon insignia glowing red..)
TORRES: Wait, wait.
BROK'TAN: Uch ghah!
TORRES: No, wait.
(She screams as he brands her cheek.)
BROK'TAN: She won't take the mark.
TORRES: What the hell is going on?
BROK'TAN: Qus'daq ba'. Qus'daq na ghah.
(They sit her down next to an old Klingon and leave.)
TORRES: Where am I?
HIJ'QA: You should know. You're half Klingon.
TORRES: Enlighten me.
HIJ'QA: This is the Barge of the Dead. Our dishonoured souls are being taken to Gre'thor.
TORRES: Klingon Hell is a myth.
HIJ'QA: That's what I thought. Just a foolish superstition. Imagine my surprise.
TORRES: But I was on Voyager with my crew.
HIJ'QA: That was the naj, the dream before dying. When we can't accept that we've died, we create the illusion of life to hold on to.
TORRES: He slaughtered my friends.
HIJ'QA: No, he slaughtered the dream. He dragged you from the illusion of life. This is where you belong.
VOICES [OC]: Hij'qa. Mag hoshonah nes'a Gre'thor. Jih neh. Jih ghaj nug soh neh. Jih qhaj nug soh. Nug soh los. Vav, nuqdaq sho? Nuqdaq' oh puchpa'e' 
TORRES: What is that?
HIJ'QA: It's the Kos'Karii. They'll try to lure you to them. Don't listen.
VOICES [OC]: Duj tlvoqtah. Batlh daqawlu'tah. Tugh! 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: B'Elanna, are you there?
JANEWAY [OC]: Lieutenant, can you hear me?
PARIS [OC]: Help us find you.
TORRES: Tom? Chakotay?
HIJ'QA: It's not your friends.
(A Klingon jumps overboard, to be eaten by sea monsters.)
HIJ'QA: There are things here worse than death.
BROK'TAN: You.
(Torres is dragged along the deck to the helmsman.)
KORTAR: Is this the mongrel child you spoke of.
BROK'TAN: Yes. The one whose face would not bear the mark.
KORTAR: B'Elanna, daughter of Miral. It's not your time.
TORRES: How do you know my name?
KORTAR: You've come close to boarding this ship many times. I remember the first. You were a child. Your mother took you to the Sea of Gatan. Your curiosity was as deep as the water.
TORRES: I fell in. I almost drowned.
KORTAR: When your mother breathed life back into your lungs, she told you about me.
TORRES: So you're supposed to be Kortar.
KORTAR: Ah. You remember me.
TORRES: I remember the myth of Kortar, the first Klingon. He destroyed the gods who created him.
KORTAR: And as punishment, I was condemned to ferry the souls of the dishonoured to Gre'thor.
(Torres spots a bat'leth hanging on a mast, and sidles towards it.)
TORRES: I may have believed in you as a child, but not anymore.
KORTAR: If you didn't still believe, you wouldn't be here.
(She grabs the bat'leth.)
KORTAR:  Foolish girl.
(He seizes the blade.)
KORTAR: You cannot harm me. I'm already dead.
(He takes the bat'leth off her, cutting her palm in the process. The storm gets worse.)
TORRES: What's happening?
KORTAR: The soul of another dishonoured warrior is being delivered.
(A woman appears on the deck.)
BROK'TAN: Kot'mah soh Gre'thor.
TORRES: Mother.

[Sickbay]

(Torres suddenly sits up on the biobed.)
EMH: It's all right. You're safe.
PARIS: Your shuttle was drifting on the trailing edge of an ion storm. You lost life support. We found you just in time.
TORRES: But I got through the storm. I remember crashing into the shuttlebay.
EMH: When we tractored your shuttle back to Voyager, you were in a coma.
PARIS: We almost lost you.
TORRES: The Klingon artefact.
PARIS: Artefact?
TORRES: My hand.
(It has a cut on it. The EMH heals it.)
EMH: You took quite a beating out there. More than your fair share of cuts and bruises.

[Torres' quarters]

(Torres is still staring at her healed palm when the doorbell chimes.)
TORRES: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: How are you feeling?
TORRES: Er, a little out of place.
CHAKOTAY: Would you like to talk about it?
TORRES: Yes. And no.
CHAKOTAY: Let me know when you decide.
TORRES: I don't know how to say this without sounding crazy.
CHAKOTAY: Try.
TORRES: Do you believe in an afterlife?
CHAKOTAY: I accept there are things in the universe than can't be scanned with a tricorder. What happened to you out there?
TORRES: I think I died. I died, and I was on the Barge of the Dead in the Klingon afterlife.
CHAKOTAY: Klingon mythology has been ingrained in you since you were a child. It's not surprising you experienced some of those images while you were unconscious.
TORRES: I saw my mother, Chakotay. If it was real, then she's dead.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, your mother, the Barge of the Dead, those are just symbols. It's your subconscious mind trying to tell you something.
TORRES: Tell me what? That my mother is going to hell?
CHAKOTAY: You need time to digest what you experienced. You have to interpret the symbols and search for their meaning.
TORRES: What if there is no symbolism to interpret? What if the afterlife is real? I'm an engineer. My whole life I've immersed myself in science and schematics. But what if it's time to start looking beyond that?
CHAKOTAY: My grandfather used to think he could transform himself into a wolf so that he could venture out to explore the spirit realm. It was real to him, as real as what your experience was to you, but that doesn't mean he grew hair all over his body and walked around on all fours.
TORRES: My mother has been on my mind a lot lately. We just had a big anniversary. It's been ten years since we talked. But it was so real. I could taste the blood in the air. I could feel the wind. I was seasick from the rocking of the boat.

[Engineering]

PARIS: Hi.
TORRES: Hi.
PARIS: What are you reading?
TORRES: The paq'batlh. It's a sacred Klingon scroll.
PARIS: Find anything?
TORRES: You don't want to know.
PARIS: Oh, come on. It can't be that bad.
TORRES: You want to bet? I found out why my mother is on her way to Gre'thor. It's because I sent her there.
PARIS: What do you mean?
TORRES: The sins of the child. She's being punished for my dishonour. I turned my back on everything Klingon, and now she has to pay the price.
PARIS: B'Elanna, you can't even be sure your mother is dead, much less blame yourself for what happens to her in some afterlife.
TORRES: Look at this. The eleventh tome of Klavek. It's a story about Kahless returning from the dead still bearing a wound from the afterlife. A warning that what he experienced wasn't a dream. The same thing happened to me.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: And the only reason Kahless was in the afterlife to begin with was to rescue his brother from the Barge of the Dead and deliver him to Sto-Vo-Kor.
PARIS: Okay.
TORRES: Don't you see? I have a chance to rescue my mother, if I can accept responsibility for her dishonour before she passes through the gates of Gre'thor. I have to go back.
PARIS: Well, wait a minute. What do you mean, go back?
TORRES: I can't let her suffer for what I've done. It's the only way.
PARIS: B'Elanna, I respect what you believe in, but you're starting to scare me.
TORRES: I'm scaring myself.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: It's a controlled procedure. I'll be under constant supervision. The Doctor can simulate the conditions of the ion storm. He's agreed to help me, but only with your permission.
JANEWAY: I'm still not inclined to grant your request.
TORRES: Are you telling me that I can't pursue my spiritual beliefs?
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, I'm not going to let you turn this into a debate about freedom of worship.
TORRES: But that's what it is.
JANEWAY: There's a limit to how far I'll let religious practices go aboard this ship. If your belief system required you to sacrifice a child to your gods, I wouldn't allow that either.
TORRES: That's an absurd example.
JANEWAY: You want to simulate a near death experience so you can revisit the Barge of Death, and you're telling me what's absurd? Bottom line, B'Elanna. I'm not going to let you risk your life for this.
TORRES: Captain, please.
JANEWAY: Request denied.
TORRES: What I do with my own life is one thing, but to know that I have condemned my mother. That because of what I've done, she's
JANEWAY: I appreciate what you're trying to say, B'Elanna, but whatever you experienced, it wasn't real.
TORRES: It doesn't matter if you think it was real. It was real to me. Whatever it was, it changed me. I can't ignore that. I need to confront what's happened.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
TORRES: You know, you're just like her.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant?
TORRES: My mother. You're as dedicated to Starfleet principles as she was to Klingon honour. I know that we haven't always seen eye to eye, but despite our differences you helped me become a good officer. And I'd like to think that you're proud of me for it.
JANEWAY: I am.
TORRES: My mother never had the chance to be proud of me. I'd like her to know me the way you do. I don't want her to die thinking of me as a disgrace. You have to let me do this.

[Sickbay]

(Torres is lighting big fat candles.)
PARIS: I can't believe the captain is allowing this. One minute you're in a coma, the next you're a born-again Klingon? I just don't get it.
TORRES: I'm not sure I get it, either. I just know this is something I have to do.
PARIS: There must be an easier way for you to explore your spirituality. Go to church, or something?
TORRES: It wouldn't be enough.
PARIS: Look, I'll read the scrolls, I'll learn Klingon. We'll figure this out together.
TORRES: Next time.
PARIS: I just hope there is a next time.
TORRES: There will be.
(Torres lies down on the biobed in the surgical bay. Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: Report.  
(The EMH comes out of his office.)
EMH: I've examined the sensor logs from the shuttle mission. I should be able to recreate the exact conditions that triggered her near-death experience.
JANEWAY: Good. B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm ready.
PARIS: Be careful.
(He kisses her.)
JANEWAY: You'll have an hour to do whatever it is you need to do. At the first sign of trouble, we're bringing you out. Understood?
EMH: Computer, erect an isolation field around the surgical bay. Decrease oxygen concentration within the force field by twenty seven percent. Begin ionising the enclosed atmosphere to five thousand particles per cubic metre. She's unconscious.
PARIS: Neural activity is decreasing to eighty seven percent. Sixty two percent. Synaptic function is failing.
EMH: Compensating.
PARIS: Neural activity is nominal.
JANEWAY: She's not breathing.
EMH: She's still alive. Her lungs are taking in just enough oxygen to keep her brain from necrotising.
JANEWAY: Qapla', B'Elanna.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]

(Torres wakes, dressed in full Klingon armour.)
BROK'TAN [OC]: Sus'a g gre'thor qay.
(She keeps her face hidden from Brok'Tan as he walks past, then opens the deck hatch.)

[Barge of the Dead - below decks]

TORRES: Mother.
MIRAL: Stay away. You are an illusion. You're a Kos'Karii trying to lure me away
TORRES: Mother, it's me. It's me.
MIRAL: B'Elanna? Then you died as well?
TORRES: I've come to lift your dishonour.
MIRAL: But you don't believe in Sto-Vo-Kor.
TORRES: A lot's happened since the last time I saw you. I've changed.
MIRAL: Not enough. It was you who brought this damnation upon me.
TORRES: If you hadn't tried to force me to become a warrior
MIRAL: I tried to guide you in the ways of a Klingon.
TORRES: You tried a little too hard.
MIRAL: If you had listened to me when you were younger, we wouldn't be on the Barge of the Dead. You were always running away.
TORRES: You drove me away. The same way you drove away my father.
MIRAL: He abandoned us.
TORRES: You pushed him to the point where he couldn't bear to be around anything Klingon, including me.
MIRAL: I wanted to give you honour. And if you had understood that, I would be not be on my way to Gre'thor.
TORRES: We're on the Barge of the Dead and we're still having the same argument we were having ten years ago. Look, if I have dishonoured you, I am truly sorry.
MIRAL: Are you? You have too much anger in your heart to be sorry.
TORRES: Oh, we don't have time for this if we're going to perform the transference.
MIRAL: Is that how you intend to lift my dishonour? By taking my place?
TORRES: Oh, don't worry. I have no intention of being on this barge when it gets to Gre'thor. We've got just enough time to perform the ritual before my crew resuscitates me.
MIRAL: Oh. I should have known you'd choose the easy way.
TORRES: What are you talking about? Do you know the risks I've taken to save you?
MIRAL: You still understand nothing about being a Klingon. I would rather face damnation with what little honour you have left me, than cheat my way into Sto-Vo-Kor.
BROK'TAN: There she is. Bring them.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]

KORTAR: The mongrel child has returned.
TORRES: I'm here to take my mother's place.
MIRAL: B'Elanna!
KORTAR: You wish to claim her dishonour as your own?
TORRES: Yes.
KORTAR: You're willing to die for her?
TORRES: Yes. Release her to Sto-Vo-Kor.
MIRAL: No!
KORTAR: Keep her quiet!
BROK'TAN: Silence.
(He puts his hand over Miral's mouth.)
KORTAR:  It's not your decision. She has the right to reclaim your honour. Once we've reached Gre'thor and you are within its gates, I will release her.
TORRES: No. Now.
KORTAR: You're very impatient. Time must be slipping away in the living world. You're concerned that your friends will revive you before you complete your deception. Did you really think that I could be fooled so easily?
TORRES: I will die for her. No tricks, no games. I will take her place honourably, like a Klingon.
KORTAR: If you choose this path, your friends will not be able to save you.
MIRAL: No! I forbid it!
TORRES: I understand.
(The brand vanishes from Miral's cheek and appears on Torres'.)
KORTAR: Your dishonour has been lifted. Sto-Vo-Kor awaits you.
MIRAL: I will not abandon my daughter.
KORTAR: She has made the choice. Go!
(Miral vanishes. The Barge arrives at the gates of a fortress.)
KORTAR: Daughter of Miral, embrace your fate.
(Torres steps onto the gangplank, and the gates open to reveal a world of flame inside.)

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Her neural patterns are breaking down.
EMH: I'm initiating emergency resuscitation. Vent the ionised particles. Twenty milligrams cordrazine, now.
JANEWAY: I'm deactivating the forcefield.
(On the gangplank, Torres looks back to see Tuvok holding a bat'leth. He steps up and knocks her off the gangplank.)

[Gre'thor Sickbay]

(Candles all around, and a brazier of fresh volcanic lava heating the room.)
EMH: Welcome to Gre'thor.
TORRES: This isn't Gre'thor.
EMH: Oh, I assure you it is. You've taken your mark.
TORRES: What is this, some kind of a joke?
NEELIX: This is no laughing matter.
EMH: You've met Mister Neelix, our ambassador to the recently deceased. Questions, comments, suggestions, he's your man.
NEELIX: If you'll follow me.
EMH: By the way, I'll be performing an aria from Berlioz's Faust tomorrow night in Holodeck two. Feel free to stop by.

[Gre'thor Corridor]

NEELIX: Fifteen decks. Computers augmented with bioneural circuitry. Top cruising speed, warp nine point nine seven five. Not that you'll be going anywhere.
TORRES: No Fek'lhr? No Cavern of Despair?
NEELIX: Don't need them.
TORRES: I don't consider Voyager hell.
NEELIX: Are you sure? Have you ever been truly happy here? If you thought fifty years aboard this ship would be difficult, try eternity.

[Gre'thor Mess hall]

ALL: (singing)  'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw 'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ 'e' pa' jaj law' mo' jaj puS. 
JANEWAY: This is a great day for B'Elanna Torres. A day when we pay tribute to her dishonour.

[Sickbay]

EMH: She's not responding to the cordrazine.
JANEWAY: Neural activity at forty eight percent, thirty seven.
PARIS: We're losing her.
EMH: We have to stabilise her synaptic functions. I'm attempting a direct neural resequencing.

[Gre'thor Mess hall]

JANEWAY: B'Elanna's misdeeds have led her to Gre'thor. She comes with no valour, no glory, nothing to celebrate in song and story.
NEELIX: You really have no one to blame but yourself.
KIM: You've kept us all at arm's length. Even Tom, who you claim to love.
PARIS: Hear, hear.
SEVEN: I tried to assist you in making Engineering more efficient, but you resisted. You're stubborn.
EMH: She inherited that from her mother, along with the forehead.
CHAKOTAY: What do you think of the afterlife so far?
TORRES: It's not exactly what I had in mind.
CHAKOTAY: Are you interpreting all the symbols? Searching your subconscious for their meaning?
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres. Defend yourself.

[Barge of the Dead - below decks]

TORRES: Captain?
(But it is Miral in a Starfleet uniform.)
TORRES: What are you still doing here? I released you to Sto-Vo-Kor.
MIRAL: You can't free me until you free yourself.
TORRES: I don't understand.
MIRAL: You never did.
TORRES: I did everything that the ritual told me to do. I came back for you.
MIRAL: Forget the ritual. It's meaningless.
TORRES: Meaningless? I died for you.
MIRAL: No, you didn't. It's not your time. You still don't understand this journey.
TORRES: Then tell me.
MIRAL: Request denied.
TORRES: What do you want?
MIRAL: Who are you asking?
TORRES: You. Kahless. The tooth fairy. Anybody who will tell me what I am supposed to do.
MIRAL: You are the only one who can answer that question. Choose to live, B'Elanna.

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Neural activity's at twenty three percent.
EMH: Initiate cortical stimulation. Pulses at fifty millijoules.
PARIS: No effect.
EMH: Increase to seventy millijoules.
JANEWAY: Come on, B'Elanna.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]

(The Voyager crew are waiting for her.)
TUVOK: Defend yourself.
(Torres takes the bat'leth and holds it to Tuvok's throat.)
TORRES: You want me to fight? You want me to be a good little Klingon? Is that it?
JANEWAY: You've let your anger consume you. Now it's consuming us.
SEVEN: She's condemned us all.
EMH: Misery loves company.
TORRES: Get away from me.
KIM: Or what? You'll kill us where we stand?
TORRES: Tell me what you want me to be. A good Starfleet officer? A good Maquis? Lover? Daughter? Just tell me what you want from me.
MIRAL: We don't want anything from you, B'Elanna.
JANEWAY: We only want you.
NEELIX: We're not your enemies.
PARIS: Defend yourself.
TORRES: I don't know how. I'm so tired of fighting.
JANEWAY: We know.
(Torres throws the bat'leth into the ocean.)
MIRAL: You've taken the first step of your journey.
TORRES: And what about you?
MIRAL: We will see each other again.
TORRES: In Sto-Vo-Kor.
MIRAL: Yes, in Sto-Vo-Kor. Or, maybe, when you get home.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: Mother? Oh god, I'm alive.
(She leans forward into Janeway's arms.)
JANEWAY: Welcome back.


S6 E4
Tinker, Tenor, Doctor, Spy
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 13 October 1999

[Mess hall]
EMH: Somewhere, in that totality known as the universe, is a galaxy called the Milky Way. Tucked into the corner of that galaxy is a planet named Earth. On that planet is a city called Mantua. Go straight ahead past the fountain, turn right, then left, then right again. You'll find yourself walking along the water, listening, as a man sings of his beloved's unfaithful heart. And even the fish begin to weep. Quando, la donna e mobile. (singing) La donne e mobile, qual piuma al a vento, muta d'accento, e di pensiero. Sempre un'amabile, leggiadro viso, in pianto o in riso, e mensognero. La donna e mobile, qual pium al vento,  muta d'accento, e di pensier.  E di pensier.
(Tuvok is weeping.)
PARIS: Tuvok?
EMH: E di pensier!
(Tuvok starts laughing, then falls to his knees.)
PARIS: Tuvok!
(Paris goes to help and gets pushed away.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security. Get a team to the mess hall right away.
EMH: Stand back. He's been seized by the pon farr. A neurochemical imbalance is driving him to mate. We won't be able to reason with him. (singing) Tuvok, I understand. You are a Vulcan man. You have just gone without for seven years about. Paris, please find a way to load a hypospray. I will give you the sign. Just aim for his behind. Hormones are raging, Synapses blazing, It's all so veeee (Paris gets an emergency medkit and loads the hypospray, then throws it to the EMH whilst he is holding the note.)
EMH: Eeery illogical. Illogical. Illogical.
ALL: Bravo! Bravo!
(Applause and adoring looks from Janeway. Flowers and kisses are thrown at the maestro.)
TORRES: Doctor?

[Doctor's office]

TORRES: Doctor? Hello?
(The EMH ends his daydream and returns to his work.)
TORRES: Maybe I'd better run a diagnostic on your hearing subroutines.
EMH: My hearing's fine. I was just letting my mind wander, that's all.
TORRES: If you're not working on anything, you should deactivate yourself. Save us the energy.
EMH: Wait a second, I thought I was scheduled to go on the away team.
TORRES: Well, the planet looks safe on the long range sensors. Any medical problems, and we can use the transporter. But, take a look at those scans and see if there's anything we might have missed.
EMH: Lieutenant, I wanted to go on the away team. There's a canyon on that planet I'd like to investigate.
TORRES: I've already handed out assignments. Next time. If you'd like, I'll snap a few images for you.
EMH: Don't bother.
TORRES: Suit yourself.
(Torres leaves.)
EMH: I'll just use my imagination.

[Bridge]

(There is a gaseous object on the viewscreen. Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: Where did that come from?
JANEWAY: Good question. It didn't show up on sensors until a few minutes ago.
CHAKOTAY: T class nebula. A thousand kilometre diameter. Hydrogen, helium, argon.
JANEWAY: Nothing too dramatic.
CHAKOTAY: If you want some drama, take a look at this.
(He hands over a PADD.)
JANEWAY: To Captain Kathryn Janeway, Starship Voyager. From Emergency Medical Hologram, Starship Voyager. Topic, status of Emergency Medical Hologram, Starship Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: He's filing a formal grievance.
JANEWAY: Regarding?
CHAKOTAY: His treatment by the crew. There's also a paragraph about his future on Voyager, and a proposal for his advancement.
JANEWAY: Failure to acknowledge sentience. Rude behaviour. What's this? A request to be made Captain in the event of a catastrophic emergency? He's serious.
CHAKOTAY: Dead serious and he wants a formal response, for the record.
TUVOK: Protocol allows for Commander Chakotay or myself to address his demands, if the captain would prefer.
JANEWAY: No, I'll take care of it. I don't want anybody to be uncomfortable on this ship. I guess we should all try to be more considerate of his feelings.
PARIS: Captain, he does it to himself. He's Chief Medical Officer. Is it our fault that's not enough for him?
JANEWAY: Resume course toward the planet. Chakotay, you have the bridge. I've got a formal response to draft.

[Overlooker ship]

(Inside the nebula, a crew of neckless aliens in rubber suits are making notes.)
OVERLOOKER: What category did I assign that vessel?
PHLOX: Unacceptable risk.
OVERLOOKER: Correct. And what was my justification for that decision?
PHLOX: The ship appears in none of our databases. Initial attempts to scan the interior failed.
OVERLOOKER: Then why are you wasting our resources?
PHLOX: I think I can penetrate the hull, using a microtunnelling sensor.
OVERLOOKER: And observe the interior one molecule at a time? There are other potential targets that must be surveyed.
PHLOX: If I could tap into a data transfer conduit, I'd be able to reach their main computer core. That would tell me all we need to know about their tactical systems, in theory.
OVERLOOKER: We could be detected. They may not like being spied upon.
PHLOX: I think I've been very careful avoiding it. I'll take every precaution, I promise.
OVERLOOKER: Unacceptable risk.
PHLOX: I've already transmitted my proposal to the Hierarchy. They should be responding momentarily.
OVERLOOKER: Do you have something you'd like to say?
DEVRO: No.
OVERLOOKER: The Hierarchy cannot be bothered with every ill-conceived notion that you
(The response arrives.)
PHLOX: They've approved. I'd better get started.
(The Overlooker stomps away.)
DEVRO: You're too confrontational. He'll report you.
PHLOX: Huh. Acceptable risk.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: The layer of antonium runs right along the edge of the canyon.
SEVEN: My scans show geological instability within one hundred metres of the target location.
PARIS: I could put the Flyer down just outside of that.
NEELIX: I don't know, Tom. That might be a little too far.
PARIS: What's the matter, Neelix? Afraid of a little exercise?
TORRES: I think we could handle a hundred metre stroll.
PARIS: I have to agree.
(The EMH gets a message on his PADD - Dinner Tonight? He looks up and Seven winks at him.)
NEELIX: Maybe getting there. It's coming back I'm worried about. We'll be loaded down with ore. If the ground is unstable
SEVEN: I suggest limiting the team members to twenty kilograms. Preliminary scans indicate the crust is dense enough to support that weight.
(Then Janeway gets up and walks around the table, brushing her hand along the back of the EMH's seat. Seven stiffens.)
PARIS: You might try carrying a transport enhancer to the site.
NEELIX: That's not a bad idea. We'll beam the ore back to the Delta Flyer and we won't have to carry anything.
TORRES: You know, this mission is starting to look a little more dangerous than we thought. Maybe we do need the Doctor to come along. If one of us fell through the crust there could be injuries.
(The EMH gets another text message - Resist.)
SEVEN: I require his assistance in Astrometrics.
TORRES: What for?
SEVEN: That's none of your business.
TORRES: I think it is.
JANEWAY: Oh!
(Janeway leans over the table by the EMH, holding her back.)
NEELIX: What's wrong, Captain?
JANEWAY: It's nothing, really. An old Academy injury. It flares up every now and then. I've learned to live with it, but maybe you should stay here and have a look. Right there.
(Janeway places the EMH's hand on the sacral area of her lower back. Torres stands.)
TORRES: Get away from him.
JANEWAY: You are dismissed. Doctor? Doctor?
(The EMH is roused from his reverie.)
EMH: Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY: Let's talk about these demands of yours.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I've given you a great deal of freedom on this ship.
EMH: I'm not disputing that.
JANEWAY: But you're not satisfied, either.
EMH: I should be allowed to participate and advance according to my abilities, like any other member of this crew.
JANEWAY: You should also know your limits.
EMH: My programme can be expanded indefinitely. I don't have limits.
JANEWAY: Maybe, but we all have primary responsibilities. Yours is Sickbay.
EMH: I'm a computer programme. Multiple tasking is second nature to me.
JANEWAY: This proposal of yours to be made a, what? What did you call it?
EMH: ECH. Emergency Command Hologram.
JANEWAY: In principle, it's an interesting idea. A backup captain in case I'm incapacitated and the command structure breaks down. But expanding your programme would take months of work.
EMH: The lives of the crew may depend on it someday.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid the answer's no, Doctor. However, as part of my formal response I have recommended that Starfleet assign a team of Engineers to consider your proposal. When we get back to the Alpha Quadrant, I'll pass it along.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The EMH walks into a Congratulations ECH Party. His PADD has morphed into a glass of champagne.)
JANEWAY: Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce the Emergency Command Hologram.
(Seven kisses him on the cheek, and Torres takes his other arm.)

[Overlooker ship]

(The party is on a monitor.)
PHLOX: I've tried to access their internal sensors, but I couldn't get past the security encryption. So, I found something even better. A holographic crewman. I've tapped into his cognitive subroutines. We can now monitor everything he's experiencing.
DEVRO: It's like having an agent on board.
JANEWAY [on screen]: To the ECH.
EMH [on screen]: Captain, this is such an honour, but if you don't mind my saying, hardly a surprise.
(A little later.)
PHLOX: Allow me to introduce the Doctor. He's a computer programme, a sentient piece of holographic technology. And he is Voyager's medical officer.
OVERLOOKER: Voyager?
PHLOX: That's the name of the ship. I've only been observing the Doctor for a matter of hours, and I've already learned more about this vessel than I did in three days of sensor sweeps.
OVERLOOKER: Elaborate.
PHLOX: The reason Voyager is not in our database is because they are not from this quadrant. They're lost. Alone.
OVERLOOKER: No backup vessel?
PHLOX: Uh huh.
OVERLOOKER: No one to contact for help?
PHLOX: Precisely. Another few hours of observation and I will know all we need to know about them. Defences, weapons, crew complement, everything.
OVERLOOKER: From monitoring one individual? Unlikely.
PHLOX: Actually, it is very likely. The social structure on Voyager is, is much different than ours.
OVERLOOKER: How so?
PHLOX: This is my observation post. I have a single function. But the Doctor does much more than just practice medicine. He has access to the entire ship, and he seems to be an expert on everything. In fact, the Captain just gave him authorisation to command the bridge! It was a very exciting moment.
OVERLOOKER: Why aren't you monitoring him now?
PHLOX: The link drops out intermittently, but it should be re-established in a few minutes.
OVERLOOKER: Maintain your surveillance.

[Sickbay]

EMH: This'll take care of any potential allergens in the planet's atmosphere. I'll monitor your medical status from the bridge, but I don't anticipate any problems. Since I'm not going, I wonder if you'd mind snapping a few holo-images for me while you're down there.
NEELIX: Gladly.
EMH: Tell me something, Mister Neelix. Do you daydream?
NEELIX: On Talaxia, we have a saying. The dream dreams the dreamer.
EMH: Care to translate?
NEELIX: We like to think that fantasies and daydreams come from someplace else. Another land. They slip into our minds and whisper about things we never imagined.
EMH: A strange notion.
NEELIX: Do you daydream, Doctor?
EMH: Of course not. I'm a computer programme. I prefer wide shots, Mister Neelix. If you're feeling creative, throw in a little ultraviolet.
NEELIX: Will do.

[Bridge]

KIM: Voyager to Delta Flyer. Report.
PARIS [OC]: We're approaching the canyon. Whew! What a view!
EMH: I'm sure it is.
JANEWAY: Put us in a synchronous orbit above their landing coordinates.
PARIS [OC]: Voyager, mayday!
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
PARIS [OC]: We've been hit. I'm taking us into the canyon.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: I don't know what happened to them.
TUVOK: I am picking up a vessel, Captain. It's Borg.
JANEWAY: Red alert. On screen. Battle stations.
(A Borg node pops out of Tuvok's hand.)
TUVOK: Captain. You must relieve me of duty at once.
SEVEN: An assimilation virus has penetrated our defences.
CHAKOTAY: We're becoming drones.
JANEWAY: Hard to starboard. Reinforce the shields.
KIM: Incoming fire.
(Janeway is knocked out.)
KIM: Doctor.
EMH: Computer, activate the ECH.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
(The EMH's uniform turns from  blue to red shoulders, and four pips appear on his collar.)
COMPUTER: Transferring all systems to your command. You have the bridge.
EMH: Indeed. Shields to maximum. Photon torpedoes, full volley. Fire. Computer, report.
COMPUTER: Enemy shields are intact.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg.
EMH: I know very well who you are. Stand down your weapons.
BORG [OC]: State your designation.
EMH: Emergency Command Hologram, at your service.
BORG [OC]: Designation unknown.
EMH: Not for long.
SEVEN: Doctor.
(Tuvok and Chakotay, now partially assimilated, advance on Seven and the EMH. He grabs a pair of hyposprays and injects Chakotay with one, before neck-pinching Tuvok. Seven gazes at him adoringly.)
COMPUTER: Warning, primary shields are failing.
EMH: This is the last time I'm going to ask you. Stand down your weapons. Turn back while you still can.
BORG [OC]: You will be assimilated.
EMH: Over my dead programme. Computer, activate the photonic cannon.
COMPUTER: The photonic cannon is online.
EMH: Fire.
(The Borg Sphere goes KaBOOM! The Overlookers gasp, then they lose the signal.)
KIM: Doctor, can you confirm? The readings, Doctor.
(The EMH returns to reality.)
EMH: Um, er, er. Readings. Er, confirm, of course. Er, the away team's physiologies are within acceptable parameters. All life signs stable.
KIM: You're okay to proceed, Tom.
PARIS [OC]: Understood. We'll contact you again when we reach the site.

[Overlooker ship]

PHLOX: Voyager will not be an easy target. It is armed with something called a photonic cannon. I watched them destroy a Borg sphere with a single volley.
OVERLOOKER: There are no reports of Borg in this region.
PHLOX: I saw it with my own eyes.
OVERLOOKER: Did you check for debris?
PHLOX: The ship was annihilated. There was nothing left for the sensors to pick up.
OVERLOOKER: Continue.
PHLOX: Their captain was disabled in the attack. The hologram is now in command. He's an impressive individual. A physician, an engineer, a warrior. And very attractive to the females. We must at all cost try to avoid a direct confrontation with him. I recommend a type three stealth assault.
(The Overlooker taps this onto a card and puts it into the computer.)
OVERLOOKER: The Hierarchy approves. Prepare for a stealth assault, type three. Scan for Borg. We don't want any last minute surprises. Or mistakes.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Doctor? Can I have a word with you?
EMH: I know I let my attention drift a little on the bridge, but I assure you
CHAKOTAY: Are you kidding? That was incredible. I just wanted to congratulate you.
EMH: For what, exactly?
CHAKOTAY: The Borg will have to think twice about attacking Voyager again. Nice work.
EMH: Computer, locate Commander Chakotay.
COMPUTER: Commander Chakotay is in his quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Something wrong?

[Engineering]

TORRES: What were you trying to do?
EMH: I've been experimenting with introducing a new function into my programme. Cognitive projections. Daydreaming. I wanted to be able to daydream.
SEVEN: An inefficient activity.
KIM: We all do it now and then, Seven. Why not the Doctor?
EMH: My thought exactly.
TORRES: So what's the problem?
EMH: The algorithms are malfunctioning. I'm starting to daydream whether I want to or not.
TORRES: They say a doctor who operates on himself has a petaQ for a patient.
SEVEN: I can help him.
TORRES: I'm sure you can.
SEVEN: The Doctor and I are going to Sickbay.
TORRES: Any excuse to be alone with him, eh, Seven?
SEVEN: Assimilation is an unpleasant fate. (They each pull at one of the EMH's arms.)
TORRES: Is that a threat?
(An alarm blares.)
KIM: This isn't possible. The warp containment field is failing.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
TORRES: Try stabilising the antimatter flow.
SEVEN: The control linkage is down.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach a lot sooner than you think.
TORRES: We've got to get someone inside the warp core. Try to eject it manually.
SEVEN: No one could survive the current level of plasma radiation.
BOTH: The Doctor.
EMH: This isn't real, is it?
KIM: Doc, you're the only one who can help us!
COMPUTER: Warning. Last chance to be a hero, Doctor. Get going.
KIM: Here's the problem. The new algorithms weren't isolated properly. They've branched into his perceptual subroutines. Doc, why don't we take a closer look at the matrix and. What are you doing?
EMH: I have to eject the core.
KIM: What?
SEVEN: Deactivate his programme.
TORRES: No, it will damage his matrix.
EMH: Don't try to stop me.
KIM: Let's take him to Sickbay.
EMH: I have to. I have to save the ship. I have to save the ship. I have to save the ship!

[Sickbay]

EMH: You look lovely tonight, Seven. Where shall we go? That sounds wonderful.
TORRES: The new algorithms have completely taken over his programme.
EMH: Ambassador!
JANEWAY: So now he's daydreaming constantly?
EMH: It's a photonic cannon. I designed it myself.
TORRES: He seems to be randomly jumping from one to the next.
(They have him isolated in the surgical bay. He bumps into the forcefield.)
EMH: Pardon me, Miss.
TORRES: I routed his subroutines to Holodeck one so Harry and Seven could monitor his fantasies.
JANEWAY: Do you think that's appropriate? They're his fantasies, and I promised him we'd show a little more consideration.
TORRES: It'll give us a better idea of what's going on, help us fix him.
EMH: Mister Neelix, how thoughtful. You baked me a cake. This won't get you out of your check-up.
KIM [OC]: Kim to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry.
KIM [OC]: You might want to have a look at this.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.
(The EMH blows out the candles on his imaginary cake.)

[Holodeck - Cargo Bay two]

(The EMH is painting his version of a reclining nude.)
EMH: Keep still, please.
HOLO-SEVEN: Anything you say, Doctor.
JANEWAY: He does the hands very well.
SEVEN: Apparently, he's had a great deal of practice. Look at these. (The preliminary sketches, with a modest lack of detail on the torso.)
JANEWAY: I see.

[Holodeck - Bridge]

EMH: Computer. Activate the Emergency Command Hologram.
KIM: This is the part I like.
(The pips popping up on the EMH's collar.)
JANEWAY: Nice touch.
EMH: Bring the photonic cannon online.
JANEWAY: Photonic cannon?
KIM: A weapon of mass destruction. Invented by the Doctor, of course.
JANEWAY: Of course.
SEVEN: In many of his fantasies he takes command and saves the ship.
JANEWAY: I see.
KIM: Which means that particular algorithm is more easily accessible than the others.
TORRES: So, if we can isolate it, we might be able to stabilise his programme.

[Holodeck - Mess hall]

HOLO-TORRES: Why do you torment me like this?
EMH: That was never my intention.
HOLO-TORRES: It wasn't?
EMH: I want you to be happy, B'Elanna.
HOLO-TORRES: Without you?
TORRES: What?
JANEWAY: Shush.
EMH: I'll always be fond of you. That will never change.
HOLO-TORRES: You can't just leave me. I couldn't bear to be alone.
EMH: Aren't you forgetting someone? He needs you, B'Elanna. Now more than ever.
HOLO-TORRES: Forget him. He's not half the man you are.
TORRES: I've seen enough of this.
KIM: All right, let's go back to Sickbay and try to isolate that algorithm.

[Holodeck - Cargo Bay two]

HOLO-JANEWAY: Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you for this opportunity, Captain. All I ever wanted was to live up to my full potential, to hone all my skills, expand my abilities, to help the people I love.

[Overlooker ship]

OVERLOOKER: What's the status?
PHLOX: I lost the signal again. I don't know what happened.
OVERLOOKER: Two assault vessels are on course to join us. Accurate information is essential.
PHLOX: The more I learn about Voyager, the more I wonder if it's worth the trouble.
OVERLOOKER: Clarify.
PHLOX: Launching an attack against such a heavily armed vessel carries a great risk, and for what? A little antimatter and some dilithium.
OVERLOOKER: Your survey indicated large quantities of both. We've already committed substantial resources to mounting this assault. Were you mistaken?
PHLOX: No, not at all. I'm just sounding a note of caution.
OVERLOOKER: If our boarding party doesn't find Voyager exactly as you've described it, the Hierarchy will be informed.
PHLOX: I understand. There has been no mistake.
OVERLOOKER: Then we'll proceed.
(The Overlooker walks away.)
PHLOX: I've made a terrible mistake.
DEVRO: How terrible?
PHLOX: The Doctor was appearing in a different location every few seconds. It didn't seem possible, so I investigated a little further and I haven't been monitoring his perceptions, I've been watching his dreams, or his, his imaginings. I'm not sure which. But none of this is real. What am I going to do?

[Doctor's office]

JANEWAY: I came to check on your patient.
EMH: He's doing just fine, Captain. It took Lieutenant Torres half the night to stabilise my matrix, but I haven't had a single flight of fancy since. I apologise for altering my programme without permission.
JANEWAY: At least there wasn't any permanent damage.
EMH: I'm afraid there was. I've been exposed, humiliated. Turned inside out for all the world to see. If I've lost your respect
JANEWAY: That will never happen. Certainly not because we've seen a few random fantasies. We all daydream, Doctor. It helps us imagine other possibilities in life. Just hold off until we've figured out a way for you to do it without damaging yourself, all right?

[Ready room]

(Janeway is reading the Federation Judicial Code when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Ship's status report. Federation law? Thinking about a career change?
JANEWAY: In a way. Not for me, though. I've been going over the legal precedents for granting command positions to holograms. There aren't any.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this ship needs its Doctor. He should focus on what he was programmed for. Medical care.
JANEWAY: I think we've underestimated him because of our own human limitations. His full potential's unknown, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Would you be comfortable handing over your ship to a computer programme?
JANEWAY: Well, I don't know if I'd take it that far.
CHAKOTAY: You might have to. He probably won't settle for less.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is checking blood samples when he hears the sounds of the ECH party.)
EMH: Oh, no.

[Daydream - Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: Allow me to shake your hand. Congratulations.
(The EMH has a medal around his neck.)
PHLOX: Doctor, may I please have a word with you?.
EMH: I don't recall dreaming you up.
PHLOX: You didn't. I'm transmitting a simulation of myself into your programme. But I am real.
EMH: Doctor to the bridge. I'm daydreaming again. Somebody deactivate me.
PHLOX: Voyager is about to be attacked.
EMH: Of course it is, unless the valiant Doctor swings into action, right?
PHLOX: Yes, yes, precisely.
EMH: A common theme in all my fantasies.
PHLOX: I reactivated your cognitive algorithms. I put you back into this fiction.
(Seven whispers into the EMH's ear.)
SEVEN: I'm ready to pose again tonight.
EMH: Here.
(He gives her his glass of champagne and she moves on.)
EMH: Why?
PHLOX: It was the only way for me to communicate with you.
EMH: I'm listening.
PHLOX: I'm a long range observer on an assault class vessel. I scan passing ships for technology and raw materials. When I find an acceptable target, we raid it.
EMH: You've been spying on us.
PHLOX: More to the point, on you. For several days I've been using a long range tunnelling sensor to tap into your programme. You were supposed to be our eyes and ears on Voyager. Instead, I got this.
EMH: My daydreams? You tapped into my daydreams? That's why my algorithms have been destabilising.
PHLOX: My fault. I'm sorry.
EMH: Tell me about this attack.
PHLOX: My ship is less than an hour away. I can help you avoid a confrontation but you must do exactly what I say.
EMH: Why should you want to help us?
PHLOX: You don't understand. The Hierarchy does not tolerate mistakes or misinformation. If they learn of my error, I'll lose my livelihood.
EMH: Well, that's what you get for being a Peeping Tom.
PHLOX: But I also care about what happens to you. I feel like I've got to know you over the past few days.
EMH: You've been spying on my fantasies, not me. You don't know me at all.
PHLOX: But I do. I know how your mind works, what your hopes are. You created all these possibilities. My species, we're very different. Our thinking is confined but, I can't help but admire you. I don't want you to be harmed.
EMH: Then I suppose we should swing into action.

[Bridge]

EMH: Captain, we're about to be attacked. Alien vessels are approaching.
PARIS: There's nothing on the sensors, Doc.
EMH: The vessels are cloaked.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know this?
EMH: One of the aliens contacted me.
TUVOK: I've detected no transmissions.
EMH: He spoke to me in a daydream.
JANEWAY: I don't want to hear it. However, I would like to know why you've disobeyed my direct order.
EMH: I can prove it to you. The alien told me how to reconfigure our sensors to compensate for their cloaking field.
 (The EMH hands a PADD to Kim. Janeway nods okay.)
KIM: He's right. I'm picking up three ships out there. Distance six hundred million kilometres, headed right for us.
JANEWAY: On screen. Maximum magnification.
EMH: The alien won't help us unless we help him.
PARIS: What if this is all part of their attack? A ruse?
CHAKOTAY: He's already helped us compensate for their cloak. I'm inclined to believe him.
JANEWAY: So am I, but I'd just as soon set a course away from here at maximum warp.
EMH: That will only delay a confrontation. They have vessels hidden throughout the entire sector.
JANEWAY: Did your friend have a plan?
EMH: He said they're running what's called a type three stealth assault. They won't decloak until they're right on top of us, at which point they'll fire a warning shot across our bow. Then come the demands for supplies and technology. If we don't comply, they'll destroy us. Fortunately, the alien promised to transmit the resonance frequencies of their phasers.
TUVOK: And in return?
EMH: In return. He mistakenly informed his superiors that I was in command of Voyager. To keep himself from being demoted, he wants us to maintain that fiction. When they open the channel, I have to be sitting in the Captain's chair. I'm sorry, Captain, but he insisted.
JANEWAY: Well, I guess it's time to turn fantasy into reality.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I'm in over my head. What if I fail?
KIM: You sound like I did when the Captain put me in command of the night shift. That chair looked so big I thought I'd sink so far into it that nobody would be able to see me.
EMH: But you had your Academy training to fall back on.
KIM: Yeah, well, sounds like you've had plenty of practice.
EMH: That wasn't real.
KIM: Listen, Doc. The whole reason you wanted to be able to daydream was to test out possibilities, right? Consider this a field test.

[Overlooker ship]

OVERLOOKER: Why isn't there any hull damage from the Borg attack?
PHLOX: They repaired it.
OVERLOOKER: So quickly? Hmm. Prepare for type four assault.
PHLOX: Type four? That would cause a huge drain on our energy core. A waste of resources. Do you really think that's necessary?
OVERLOOKER: What I think doesn't matter. Your long range surveillance indicated an attack by Borg. On closer inspection, that appears to be doubtful. Your report on this vessel could be mistaken. I think caution is in order. The Hierarchy agrees. Proceed to type four.

[Bridge]

(The newly configured Emergency Command Hologram enters from the turbolift with Kim.)
PARIS: Captain on the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: It won't bite.
PARIS: What I wouldn't give right now for a whoopee cushion.
KIM: A what?
PARIS: Ancient technology.
(The EMH sits in the Captain's chair. Her screen beeps and he leaps to his feet, before sitting down slowly again.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we're ready to proceed.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Acknowledged, Commander.
SEVEN: The internal comm. link is active. No one will be able to hear you but the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Doctor, are

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: You ready?
EMH: No, but do I have a choice?
JANEWAY [OC]: I'll be with you every step of the way. Just remember, I'm still the captain.
EMH: Understood.
TUVOK: I'm receiving a transmission on a secure channel. Audio only.
CHAKOTAY: Must be the Doctor's friend. Let's hear what he has to say. Doctor?
EMH: Hello? Voyager here. It's me.
PHLOX [OC]: Doctor, something terrible has happened. They've ordered a type

[Astrometrics lab]

PHLOX [OC]: Four assault. Our phaser frequencies will be rotated

[Bridge]

PHLOX [OC]: Continuously. I won't be able to help you.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
TUVOK: Three vessels are decloaking off the port bow.
(Whumph!)
PARIS: That didn't feel like a warning shot.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Shields are holding.
KIM: They're hailing us.
CHAKOTAY: This is it, Doctor. On screen.

[Overlooker Ship]

PHLOX: See? There he is. Be careful, he, he's dangerous.

[Bridge]

OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: The Hierarchy controls this region of space.

[Astrometrics lab]

OVERLOOKER [OC]: Your ship has supplies and technology that we require.
JANEWAY: Tell him we'll defend ourselves.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: They won't get what they're after.
EMH: We'll defend ourselves. They won't get what they're after.
OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: Huh?
EMH: I mean you won't get what you're after. Not in a million years. Not if I have anything to say about it.
JANEWAY [OC]: Don't improvise, Doctor.
EMH: Sorry.
OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: An exchange of fire would damage both of our ships, But we have support nearby. You are alone. Take your weapons offline and prepare to be boa
TUVOK: Excuse the interruption, Commander. I have found a potential weakness in their shields, but I'll need time to reconfigure our phasers.
CHAKOTAY: Keep him occupied, Doctor. On screen.
OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: This is my final warning.
EMH: Don't rush me.
OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: Take your weapons offline immediately. I won't ask again.
EMH: You appear to be suffering from a physio-emotive disorder. You're impatient, quick to anger. Do you have any idea what that does to your vascular pressure? You may want to see a physician.
TUVOK: Firing phasers.
KIM: Direct hit.
EMH: Ha! How do you like that, huh? A taste of your own medicine.
JANEWAY [OC]: Tone it down, Doctor.
EMH: Sorry.
(Big Whumph!)
TUVOK: Our phasers are offline.
OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: Prepare to be boarded.
JANEWAY [OC]: It's time to negotiate, Doctor. Tell
EMH: Tuvok!
(The EMH stands in an heroic pose.)
EMH: Activate the photonic cannon. Tuvok, that was an order!
TUVOK: Activating the photonic cannon, sir.
EMH: I'd rather not give the order to fire.
OVERLOOKER [on viewscreen]: My sensors are showing no activation sequence.
EMH: Of course not. The photonic cannon is impervious to sensors.
PHLOX [on viewscreen]: The Borg couldn't detect it either. That's why they were destroyed.
EMH: The Borg

[Overlooker ship]

EMH [on viewscreen]: The Hierarchy, it's all the same to me. Just another bully who didn't know when to back off.

[Bridge]

PHLOX [on viewscreen]: We'll be vaporised!
(Transmission ends.)

[Overlooker ship]

(The Overlooker reports to the Heirarchy.)
OVERLOOKER: The Hierarchy suggests retreat.
(Phlox heaves a great sigh of relief.)

[Bridge]

KIM: They're moving away at maximum impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Doctor. You've earned it.
(The EMH sits in the Captain's chair and smiles to himself.)

[Doctor's office]

SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.
EMH: Go ahead.
SEVEN [OC]: I require your assistance in the mess hall.
EMH: I'll be right there.

[Mess hall]

ALL: Surprise!
(The senior officers are in dress uniform.)
KIM: Don't worry Doc, you're not dreaming.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: For your imaginative defence of this ship and her crew, I'm awarding you the Starfleet Medal of Commendation. Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you.
JANEWAY: I've also reconsidered your request. I'm going to authorise a research project to explore your command abilities. You're a natural.
SEVEN: Congratulations, Doctor. (kisses him on cheek) That was a Platonic gesture. Don't expect me to pose for you.
EMH: Noted.


S6 E5
Alice
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 20 October 1999

[Bridge]
(Tuvok is in the Captain's chair.)
PARIS: All right, all right, hold on. If you were married in 2304 and your daughter was conceived in your eleventh pon farr, that would make you a hundred and sixty two years old.
TUVOK: Incorrect.
KIM: Come on, Tom, The man's not a day over one forty. We know you were at least a hundred when you joined Starfleet the second time, so I'm guessing you're around one thirty three?
TUVOK: Also incorrect. I'm afraid you both lack sufficient data to reach a logical conclusion.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok, tell us.
TUVOK: I see no reason to enlighten you.
KIM: Don't tell me Vulcans are embarrassed about their age.
TUVOK: On the contrary. We value the wisdom that comes with advancing years.
PARIS: In that case, how wise are you?
TUVOK: Wise enough to end this inquiry.
(Beep!)
PARIS: Saved by the bell.
KIM: I've got a fleet of ships two hundred thousand kilometres dead ahead.
TUVOK: Can you identify them?
KIM: Negative.
PARIS: I'm reading multiple hull configurations.
TUVOK: Raise shields. Red alert.
(Janeway and Chakotay enter from the ready room.)
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We've detected a large group of vessels directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Hostile?
TUVOK: Possibly. I'm charging weapons.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: I'm counting sixty two ships and a few hundred pieces of ships. All dead in space.
PARIS: It's a junkyard. Congratulations, Tuvok. You just saved us from a flotilla of hostile trash.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Let's see what they want.
ABADDON [on viewscreen]: Welcome to Abaddon's Repository of Lost Treasures. Whether you're in the mood to buy or simply browse, we're always open. Take a look. You may find something you never knew you wanted.

[Transporter room]

CHAKOTAY: Mister Abaddon.
ABADDON: The name was passed down from my father and his father before him. Not a very imaginative lot, but I'll answer to it just the same.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay, this is Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Welcome to Voyager.
ABADDON: Neelix, is it? You wouldn't be a fellow trader, would you?
NEELIX: What makes you say that.
ABADDON: Cheerful demeanour, furtive eyes. It's obvious you're a man of commerce.
CHAKOTAY: You're very perceptive, Mister Abaddon.
ABADDON: A useful skill in my line of work.
NEELIX: I'll admit there was a time when I dabbled in commerce but, these days I focus my efforts on food and diplomacy.
ABADDON: Well, whether you're interested in a new iso-convective oven or a slightly dated translation matrix, you've come to the right place. My inventory, give or take a few items. After twenty years, it's hard to keep up.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like you have an item or two we might be interested in.
NEELIX: Ah, the question is, what are you looking for in return?
ABADDON: Artificial gravity plating. Plasma-based power induction. Impressive.
CHAKOTAY: Those are integrated systems. Unfortunately, we couldn't trade them to you without dismantling our whole ship.
NEELIX: Commander, don't we have some spare duranium sheeting in cargo bay one? With a few modifications, it could be converted into gravity plating.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea. Why don't you show Mister Abaddon our inventory? Report back when you're done.
NEELIX: Yes, sir. Mister Abaddon, follow me please.

[Astrometrics lab]

(They are scanning the vessels in the space junk yard.)
KIM: This guy's collected more technology than the Borg.
SEVEN: And almost all of it is useless.
PARIS: Wait. What's that?
SEVEN: Ensign?
PARIS: Grid forty nine alpha. Oh, she's beautiful.
KIM: It's just an old rust bucket.
PARIS: Are you kidding? Look at those lines. It's a work of art. That ship wasn't assembled, it was sculpted. I think I'm in love.

[Briefing room]

NEELIX: That makes fifteen power regulators in fair condition, and three more we could salvage with a little work. Seven has some doubts about the ion exchange rods.
CHAKOTAY: We'll take a chance. Add them to the list. What about these cultural artefacts?
NEELIX: Oh, just a few items I thought might have some historical value. They don't cost much.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a good haul. If that's it?
NEELIX: Oh yes, there is one other item. A small vessel that could be an asset.
CHAKOTAY: We've already got a full complement of shuttles, not to mention the Delta Flyer. What do we need with this derelict ship?
PARIS: Chakotay, this ship is a diamond in the rough. Sure, it's got some scrapes and scratches, but, here, take a look at these systems. It has a neurogenic interface that allows it to react directly to the pilot's thoughts. That gives it the potential of being quicker and more manoeuvrable than anything we've got, including the Delta Flyer.
NEELIX: Add to that an optronic weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: I get the picture. Are you sure you're not just looking for a new toy?
PARIS: No, absolutely not. Even B'Elanna thinks restoring this ship is worthwhile.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. If we had the manpower to restore it.
PARIS: No, I'll do all the work myself. On my own time. And if I need a hand, Harry's offered to help.
KIM: I have?
CHAKOTAY: What will it cost us?
NEELIX: Abaddon's agreed to give it to us for three used power cells and Tom's interactive record collection.
PARIS: My jukebox.
CHAKOTAY: All right. One slightly used alien ship. Don't make me regret this.
PARIS: You won't.

[Corridor]

ABADDON: Remember, just one seat, not much storage. She was designed for speed, not hauling.
PARIS: Understood.
ABADDON: Make sure you go easy on the thrusters. She doesn't like being manhandled.
NEELIX: Temperamental?
ABADDON: Sensitive. She demands respect, like any fine piece of machinery.
PARIS: Sounds like you're sorry to let her go.
ABADDON: Well, in some ways she's like the daughter I couldn't marry off. But that doesn't mean I'd trade her to just anyone. I've got a feeling you're the kind of pilot that she needs. Someone that'll give her the proper care and attention.
PARIS: I'm your man.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Mister Abaddon, she's in good hands.

[Transporter room]

ABADDON: Well, this has been a very productive exchange. Oh, just one more thing.
NEELIX: Let me guess. All trades are final.

[Alice]

(Inside the little ship, in the shuttlebay.)
PARIS: I still can't get an active readout.
KIM: Here's the reason. Another damaged power cell.
PARIS: Oh, come on, Alice, how about it? Give us a break.
KIM: Alice?
PARIS: Well, I've got to call her something.
KIM: How about The Lost Cause?
PARIS: Alice Battisti was the Lost Cause. I knew her back at the Academy. She was smart, sexy, but she wouldn't give me the time of day.
KIM: All right, Alice it is. Try it again.
PARIS: I've got a pulse.
KIM: A little snug.
PARIS: As Seven would say, an efficient design. The main computer's coming online.
KIM: There's not much in it. Just a few schematics. Looks like somebody tried to wipe the database.
PARIS: Probably rolled the odometer back, too. Let's see what this neurogenic interface can do.
(A metal band comes out of the pilot's head restraint half way around his head. The ship powers up properly.)
PARIS: Whoa.
KIM: What's it like?
PARIS: It's kind of hard to describe. I'm tapped into all the primary systems. Ops, tactical, sensors.
(Then it switches off and the band retracts.)
PARIS: What happened?
KIM: We just blew out two more power cells.
PARIS: See if you can reconfigure the power distribution grid.
KIM: Look, we're both tired. Why don't we call it a night, come back fresh tomorrow?
PARIS: Come on, we can still get a couple more hours in.
KIM: You can get a couple more hours in. I'm going to bed.
PARIS: All right, you win. Good night, Alice. See you in the morning.
(They leave the shuttlebay. The little ship powers up.)
PARIS [on monitor]: Good night, Alice. See you in the morning. See you in the morning.
(It displays a scan of Paris' brain.)
ALICE [OC]: See you in the morning. See you in the morning.

[Paris' quarters]

(Paris is distracted from his PADD by a breathy female voice.)
ALICE [OC}: Tom. 
PARIS: B'Elanna?
(He leaves his quarters.)

[Corridor]

ALICE [OC]: Tom.

[Shuttlebay]

PARIS: Who are you?
ALICE [OC]: It's me, Alice.
(Next day, Paris enters.)
PARIS: Good morning, Alice.
(He works on the little ship's systems, and cleans the hull. Finally, he pins his comm. badge onto a brand new silver spacesuit.)

[Engineering]

PARIS: Sorry, you're going to have to trust me on this. You'll be a lot happier if we can bypass the EPS relays.
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: Yeah.
KIM: Who are you talking to?
PARIS: Alice. She's being very stubborn today. No matter what I do, I can't get her to bring her propulsion systems online.
KIM: Next question. What are you wearing?
PARIS: This is a flight suit design I found in Alice's database. Something her last pilot used to wear.
KIM: For a minute, I thought you were changing Captain Proton's look. Chapter thirty seven.
PARIS: Oh, The Web of Pain. I completely forgot.
KIM: No problem. I've got another hour on the holodeck.
PARIS: Now's not a great time. How about tomorrow?.
KIM: That's what you said yesterday.
PARIS: Sorry, Harry. Alice needs me.
KIM: So does Arachnia.
PARIS: Give the queen my regards. Okay.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Seven, can I get you something?
SEVEN: A refund. The star charts we obtained from Abaddon are inaccurate.
NEELIX: Really?
SEVEN: The computations are based on obsolete data.
NEELIX: It's not the only item that didn't live up to its advertising.
(Seven looks at the items Neelix is cleaning.)
SEVEN: Cultural artefacts?
NEELIX: According to Abaddon, they're lost treasures of the Delta quadrant. If you ask me, they're worthless trinkets. (She picks up a gem embedded in a piece of clear material.)
SEVEN: Perhaps not. This crystal is beryllium.
NEELIX: Valuable?
SEVEN: Beryllium is the standard currency in spatial grid five three nine. There are species that would trade an entire fleet of starships for this trinket.
NEELIX: If Abaddon knew about this, he'd never have traded it for a few plasma couplings. Maybe I should return it.
SEVEN: Need I remind you? All trades are final.
PARIS: Neelix, I need one bottle of champagne, if you don't mind.
NEELIX: Another anniversary?
PARIS: No, I'm christening Alice.
NEELIX: Congratulations. I'll whip up some hors d'oeuvres for the crew.
PARIS: Oh no, don't bother. This is a private ceremony. Just me and B'Elanna.
NEELIX: And Alice, of course.
PARIS: Oh yes, of course.
NEELIX: There's nothing like having your own ship. I remember when I first laid eyes on my little freighter, Baxial.
PARIS: No, don't tell me. Love at first sight.
NEELIX: Actually, I thought she was the ugliest thing I ever saw. But she grew on me. Eventually, I couldn't imagine being without her. You know, she's still down at the shuttlebay. Why don't we get her and Alice together and go on a double date.
PARIS: You pack the picnic basket, I'll bring the deuterium.

[Corridor]

TORRES: So, I finally get to meet the other woman.
PARIS: Well, don't be too critical, she's a long way from finished.
TORRES: When have you ever known me to be critical?
PARIS: Is that a trick question? Okay, ready?

[Shuttlebay]

PARIS: Well?
TORRES: It's beautiful. I can hardly believe it's the same ship.
PARIS: Yeah, most of it isn't. I've replaced the impulse reactor, navigational array, er, plasma manifolds. The list goes on and on. Just a few more repairs, and she'll be spaceworthy. Care to do the honours?
TORRES: It's almost a shame to break this over the hull.
PARIS: You have a point.

[Alice]

(They open the champagne to drink it.)
PARIS: Oh, be careful The upholstery.
TORRES: I'll send an Engineering team down to clean it up. To Alice.
PARIS: To Alice.
TORRES: So when's her first flight?
PARIS: A couple of days, if I can round up all the parts I need. You want to come with me?
TORRES: Sure there's room?
PARIS: It'll be a tight squeeze.
TORRES: We'll manage.
(Alice beeps.)
PARIS: Hold on.
TORRES: Something wrong?
PARIS: It's these environmental controls. They need recalibrating.
TORRES: It is kind of warm in here, isn't it?
PARIS: Alice, lower the ambient temperature.
ALICE [OC]: Please specify, Tom.
PARIS: Five degrees should do it.
ALICE [OC]: Temperature modification complete.
TORRES: That's some voice.
PARIS: It came with the ship. Are you jealous?
TORRES: Maybe I should be. I hear you've been sleeping here.
PARIS: When Alice lets me sleep.
TORRES: Sounds like a real slave driver. Well, if you're trying to make improvements, you might want to start with these reactant injectors. The deuterium mix is too high.
PARIS: That's how Alice likes it. No, don't touch that.
TORRES: I was just trying to help.
PARIS: Well, thanks, but we're fine.
TORRES: We? It's a ship, Tom.
PARIS: Yeah, but she's my ship.
TORRES: Well then, maybe I'll leave the two of you alone.
PARIS: Okay. I'll see you later.
TORRES: Thanks for the champagne.
(Torres touches the door control and gets a shock.)
TORRES: Ow!
PARIS: Oh, sorry. I need to fix that.

[Chakotay's office]

CHAKOTAY: Thirty metres of EPS conduit? A broadband sensor matrix? A tactical data module? Tom, I appreciate your enthusiasm, but I can't spare these parts right now.
PARIS: They're just lying around Cargo Bay two.
CHAKOTAY: Those are emergency supplies, and this isn't an emergency.
PARIS: Okay, what if I just replicated some?
CHAKOTAY: That takes energy, which isn't exactly in abundance at the moment. Maybe in a few weeks, if we can replenish our power reserve.
PARIS: A few weeks? What am I supposed to do until then?
CHAKOTAY: Your duties, which you've been neglecting. You've been late for two shifts in Sickbay. You've been distracted on the bridge. Maybe it's time you gave this project a rest.
PARIS: Yeah, you're right. I guess I have been overdoing it.
CHAKOTAY: You look run down. Maybe you should stop by Sickbay and have the Doctor take a look at you.
PARIS: No, I'm fine. I just haven't been getting enough sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Well, your next shift isn't till oh seven hundred. Why don't you do yourself a favour and turn in early.
PARIS: Yeah. Good idea.
CHAKOTAY: One more thing. I'd appreciate it if you'd shave and change back into your uniform. We do have protocols.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: We'll get your Alice flying. Just give it some time.

[Shuttlebay]

PARIS: Sorry, Alice, we'll have to put the test flight on hold. All we need is a few lousy spare parts, but to listen to Chakotay you'd think Voyager would grind to a halt without them.
(A brunette in the same style of flight suit is leaning against Alice's hull.)
ALICE: But we're so close.
PARIS: Well, he gave me a direct order.
ALICE: Since when do you care so much about orders?
PARIS: I'm already an Ensign. You want to see me busted down to Cadet?
ALICE: Don't take that off.
PARIS: Well, I'm afraid I have to get back into uniform. Protocol.
ALICE: Forget about protocol. Once my repairs are complete, we can go somewhere together.
PARIS: Leave Voyager?
ALICE: It's been a long time since I met a pilot I've been compatible with. We can go anywhere you want.
PARIS: It's very tempting, Alice, but I can't just take off.
ALICE: What's holding you back?
PARIS: My job, for one thing. My friends. B'Elanna.
ALICE: She doesn't understand you the way I do. None of them do.
PARIS: Look, maybe we can make the test flight in a few weeks. And if it goes well, I'm sure the Captain will assign us on missions together. But I can't leave Voyager.
ALICE: All right. I'm sure you know what's best for us.
PARIS: Yeah, I think I do.
ALICE: You look a little tired. How about some rest?

[Alice]

ALICE: Sit back, relax. Let me help you with this.
(She refastens his flight suit. It has acquired three nodes by the collar.)
PARIS: What are these?
ALICE: Just some modifications I made to your flight suit. They'll help us work together more closely. I'll show you. Activate the interface. Just for a minute. You won't regret it. What do you say we continue with those repairs?

[Jefferies tube]

ALICE: How's it coming?
(Paris'  beard is getting more obvious.)
PARIS: This is the last power cell, then we'll just need the data module from section beta twelve.
ALICE: What's wrong?
PARIS: Oh, these relays are just tricky, that's all.
ALICE: You're not being honest with me. I thought we agreed to tell each other everything.
PARIS: Well, it's just, we're compromising vital systems.
ALICE: Backup systems.
PARIS: If there's an emergency, Voyager's going to need them.
ALICE: If your friends had been more understanding, we wouldn't have to be sneaking around like this.
PARIS: I've spent the last six years with these people. They're like my family.
ALICE: Sometimes you have to leave your family behind. They're not like us. They're trapped by rules and regulations. Velocity, freedom. They'll never understand these things the way we do.
PARIS: Yeah, maybe you're right.
ALICE: Of course I am. You don't belong here. You belong with me. You're thinking about your first flight, aren't you? Tell me.
PARIS: Dad took me up in an old S class shuttle. Two seats, no warp drive, manual helm controls. I was eight years old and I was scared out of my wits.
ALICE: You couldn't keep the ship level.
PARIS: No, not at first. But then came this moment of clarity, when suddenly everything made sense.
ALICE: The clouds parted.
PARIS: I was flying. No matter how many starships I've piloted since then, I'm still chasing that feeling.
ALICE: Tomorrow you'll catch it. Only this time there won't be any clumsy controls to get in the way. Just you, me, and the stars.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Paris is working on a flight plan. He clears the screen when Seven enters.)
PARIS: Hey.
SEVEN: I wasn't aware you were assigned to Astrometrics.
PARIS: I was just passing by. I guess curiosity got the best of me.
SEVEN: Are you planning an away mission? You were charting a course.
PARIS: Oh, that. No, I was just taking a peek at what's ahead of us. All yours.
SEVEN: You've modified your garment.
PARIS: Adapted, actually. I made a few tweaks to enhance Alice's neurogenic interface. You know, the merging of man and machine.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should learn more about this interface before you attempt to use it.
ALICE: Convince her it's safe.
PARIS: I ran diagnostics of every system on board that ship. There's nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: Perhaps I should examine it.
ALICE: Make an excuse and leave.
PARIS: It's nice of you to offer, but it's really not necessary. I have to get back to work.

[Engineering]

KIM: Power fluctuation's down to four point seven percent. Looks like Abaddon's regulators might work out after all,
TORRES: Keep at it. The last thing we need is a temperamental power supply.
KIM: Bad day at the office?
TORRES: Bad night with Tom Paris. You're his best friend, right?
KIM: So he tells me.
TORRES: So maybe you can explain why every time he finds a new hobby, I go right out the airlock.
KIM: I wouldn't take it personally. The Ferengi call it the Five Stages of Acquisition. Infatuation, Justification, Appropriation, Obsession, and Resale. Seems like you only got one stage left before he loses interest in that ship and he's all yours again.
TORRES: Until the next infatuation. We've got a point zero zero three drop in the warp field output.
KIM: That's within parameters.
TORRES: Not on my watch. Somebody's removed four power cells from the secondary warp assembly without authorisation.
KIM: Whoever it was tried to cover his tracks by rerouting power from adjacent cells. Should we tell Tuvok?
TORRES: Don't bother. This is an open and shut case.

[Shuttlebay]

TORRES: Tom Paris!
(She walks around Alice and finds some tools.)
TORRES: Well Alice, looks like you've been borrowing my things without permission.

[Alice]

(The hatch closes behind Torres.)
TORRES: Hey! Computer, open the hatch.
ALICE [OC]: Unable to comply. Warning. Life support failure.
TORRES: Torres to the bridge. Torres to Chakotay. Anybody!
(Paris enters the shuttlebay and sees Torres hammering on the front window, just before she collapses.)
PARIS: B'Elanna, what are you doing here?
TORRES: Let me out of here!

[Corridor]

PARIS: What the hell happened in there?
TORRES: Your ship tried to kill me.
PARIS: That's ridiculous.
TORRES: It sealed the hatch, vented the atmosphere.
PARIS: You must have accidentally tripped environmental controls.
TORRES: Don't you try to tell me this was an accident.
PARIS: What else could it have been?
TORRES: How about pilot error?
PARIS: Are you saying that this was my fault?
TORRES: What's gotten into you? You've been stealing components, Tom. I found the power cells.
PARIS: A few spare parts. You're overreacting.
TORRES: Am I?
PARIS: Where are you going?
TORRES: To talk to the Captain.
PARIS: Wait.
TORRES: There's something wrong with you.
PARIS: Listen to me!
TORRES: Are you out of your mind?
PARIS: Stay out of this, B'Elanna!
TORRES: Or what? You'll sic Alice on me again?
(Torres runs off.)
ALICE: Let her go.
PARIS: What were you thinking? You could have killed her!
ALICE: She broke into my database. She was going to discover our flight plan. Not that it matters now.
PARIS: What is that supposed to mean?
ALICE: Keep your voice down. Once your girlfriend talks to the captain they'll drag you straight to Sickbay. One neural scan and they'll know all about us.
PARIS: Well, maybe it's time they did.
ALICE: Think you can just walk away?
PARIS: Watch me.
(Alice appears ahead of him.)
ALICE: So, I guess this is the real Tom Paris. Life throws up a few roadblocks and he heads for the nearest exit.
PARIS: Get away from me.
ALICE: I need you.
PARIS: You should have thought of that before you tried to kill B'Elanna.

[Turbolift]

PARIS: Sickbay.
ALICE: Remember how you felt when you first saw me? You knew we were meant to be together.
PARIS: I was wrong.
ALICE: Think of how it feels when you're sitting at the helm, and the interface is active.
PARIS: It's over, Alice. One way or the other, I'm getting the hell away from you.
ALICE: I'm sorry you feel that way.
(Paris screams and sinks to his knees.)
PARIS: Argh! What are you doing to me?
ALICE: Convincing you to do the right thing. Take us the shuttlebay. We're leaving Voyager.
PARIS: No! Argh!
ALICE: Please, Tom. I don't want to hurt you. The shuttlebay, now.
PARIS: Deck ten. Shuttlebay.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: This isn't the first time you and Tom have had an argument about how he spends his free time.
TORRES: This wasn't a lovers' quarrel. Captain, he practically assaulted me.
JANEWAY: Well, that doesn't sound like Tom.
TORRES: It wasn't Tom. It was Alice.
JANEWAY: Now you've lost me.
TORRES: That's the name that he's calling this new ship. Ever since he started working on it, he hasn't slept, he's become irritable, irrational. It's not just me. Chakotay and Harry have noticed the same thing.
JANEWAY: This new ship. It has some kind of neurogenic interface.
TORRES: Exactly. It must be having some kind of an effect on him.
JANEWAY: All right, I'll have the Doctor take a look at him. But in the meantime, I want you
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain, we have an unauthorised launch in progress.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Seal the shuttlebay doors.
KIM: Too late, he's out.
(Alice flies away.)
KIM: His shields are up. I can't get a transporter lock.
JANEWAY: Tractor beam.

[Alice]

PARIS: They're trying to tractor us.
ALICE: Stop them.
PARIS: I can't.
ALICE: You'll be able to manoeuvre much better if you complete the interface.
PARIS: How?
ALICE: Activate the connector sequence.
(Cables come out of the pilot's seat and into the nodes on his flight suit.)
ALICE: We're one now, Tom. Think of what you want me to do, and I'll do it.
PARIS: We can disrupt their tractor beam with an optronic pulse.
ALICE: Good. You have access to our weapons. Use them.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: He's charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields.
(Whumph!)
TORRES: He's disrupting our tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Increase power to the emitters. We'll drag him in by his heels if we have to.
TUVOK: He's broken free, Captain.
(Whumph!)
 JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris. Stand down and return to Voyager immediately.

[Alice]

PARIS: I'm with Alice now, Captain. Let us go.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: You know I can't do that, Tom.

[Alice]

ALICE: She'll do anything to get you back. I don't blame her for that, but we have to stop her.
PARIS: How?
ALICE: You know.

[Bridge]

KIM: He's coming about.
TUVOK: He's charging weapons again. Direct hit.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
KIM: He's gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Track him.
TORRES: He masked his warp signature. He's gone.

[Alice]

ALICE: And Daedalus fashioned wings from wax and feathers and used them to escape his prison.
PARIS: That's one of my favourite myths.
ALICE: I know.
PARIS: But you left out the part where Icarus flew too close to the sun and his wings melted.
(There are a lot more cables now attaching Paris to Alice.)
ALICE: Poetic license. Besides, if we get too close to a star we have multiphasic shielding to protect us. What is it?
PARIS: My arms. They feel numb.
ALICE: Who need arms when you have wings? You're becoming a part of me now. Our potential is unlimited. Forget the old Tom Paris. He doesn't exist anymore.

[Bridge]

(Voyager has returned to the junk yard.)
ABADDON [on viewscreen]: You know my policy.
JANEWAY: We're not looking for a refund, just some information.
ABADDON [on viewscreen]: That's one commodity I don't keep in stock. I suggest you look elsewhere.
JANEWAY: Not until we get some answers.
ABADDON [on viewscreen]: You'll find I'm prepared to deal with disgruntled customers.
TUVOK: Captain, I'm reading active weapons signatures on three of the derelict ships. They are targeting Voyager.
JANEWAY: Before we take actions we both might regret, Mister Neelix has something to show you.
NEELIX: I wanted to say thank you for this lost treasure.
ABADDON [on viewscreen]: A beryllium crystal.
NEELIX: I'm surprised a trader of your distinction would let this slip through his fingers. I could say all trades are final, but we'd be willing to give it back in exchange for some cooperation.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: Haunted?
ABADDON: That's what the Haarkonian told me when he traded her. I blamed his wild stories on isolation sickness and then took the ship off his hands.
CHAKOTAY: Did you ever notice anything odd about the ship?
ABADDON: Odd? You could say that. I tried turning her into a towing vessel. She was cooperative at first but then she began to require constant, oh.
ALICE: I hope you haven't forgotten me.
(This time, she is the same race as Abaddon.)
NEELIX: Mister Abaddon?
ABADDON: Where was I?
CHAKOTAY: Constant repairs.
ABADDON: Right. Please, I wasn't going to tell them anything.
TUVOK: Who were you speaking to?
ABADDON: No one. I, I, I have to leave now. I'll return the items you traded for the ship. Leave me alone. I did what you told me. I found you a pilot.
JANEWAY: What is it? What are you seeing?
ABADDON: It's her. She's right in front of me.
CHAKOTAY: There's no one there.
ABADDON: Transport me back now. Argh!
(He clutches his head and collapses.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]

EMH: He suffered a cerebral haemorrhage. Fortunately, I was able to repair the damage in time.
JANEWAY: What caused it?
EMH: It appears his neural pathways were recently restructured. I detected a neurogenic signature.
JANEWAY: Looks like Alice got to him, too. Wake him.
ABADDON: She was here.
EMH: The woman you saw was an hallucination created by the derelict ship's neurogenic interface. I've given you a cortical suppressant. She won't be bothering you anymore.
JANEWAY: Tell me. What does this ship want with our crewman?
ABADDON: She can't fly herself, she needs a pilot. A biological entity to work in tandem with her programming.
JANEWAY: Well, if all she needed was a pilot, why didn't she just recruit you?
ABADDON: I wasn't compatible. She said my reflexes were too slow, that I was as useless as the junk that I traded, and I couldn't get her to where she needed to go. Don't ask me for the coordinates. She never told me. Just insisted that I get her a real pilot. I'm sorry I didn't warn you before. I couldn't resist her.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to Captain Janeway. Please report to Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've managed to reconstruct the data Ensign Paris was working on. My suspicion was correct. It is a course trajectory.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
SEVEN: It terminates in spatial grid eight six seven.
JANEWAY: Looks uninhabited.
SEVEN: It's empty space, with the exception of a small anomaly.
JANEWAY: A particle fountain. The Federation lost more than a dozen ships examining a similar phenomenon in the Alpha Quadrant. Relay the coordinates to the bridge.

[Alice]

ALICE: Take us out of warp. Can you see it now?
PARIS: Yes. What is it?
(It is the particle fountain.)
ALICE: Home.

[Bridge]

(Voyager arrives at the fountain, too.)
JANEWAY: Distance?
KIM: Six million kilometres.
JANEWAY: Decrease speed to one quarter impulse. Full power to shields.
TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel off our starboard bow.
KIM: It's Tom. He's headed right for the anomaly.
JANEWAY: Can you get a transporter lock?
KIM: No, ma'am, not with those multiphasic shields in place.
JANEWAY: Are we in hailing range?
TUVOK: Opening a channel. He's responding.
PARIS [on viewscreen]: Keep your distance, Captain, or we'll open fire.
JANEWAY: Tom, listen to me. The neurogenic interface is affecting your judgment. Drop your shields

[Alice]

JANEWAY [OC]: And let us beam you aboard.
ALICE: Ignore them. Keep going.

[Bridge]

KIM: He's not responding.
JANEWAY: Target his propulsion systems and fire.
(Tom feels the weapons hit personally.)
TUVOK: Direct hit. The vessel's shields are holding.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the bridge.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Cease fire. Ensign Paris' neural readings are fluctuating. His synaptic functions have become linked to the ship. If we keep firing we could injure him. Severely.
JANEWAY [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tuvok, stand down.
KIM: We've got ten minutes until he reaches the particle fountain.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to disable their shields without firing weapons?
TUVOK: If I could access their main computer and transmit a shutdown sequence.
KIM: Problem is, Tom and Alice would detect it. They'd compensate.
JANEWAY: Unless we find a way to distract them. Bridge to the Doctor.
EMH [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Any progress on your analysis of the neurogenic interface?
EMH [OC]: Not yet, Captain.
JANEWAY: Would it be possible to tap into the interface using a comm. signal?

[Sickbay]

EMH: I believe so, but I don't know what that would accomplish.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: You've got five minutes. Do it.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY [OC]: And tell B'Elanna to prepare for an away mission.
TORRES: Captain?

[Bridge]

KIM: We're four minutes away.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(Torres has a blinkie on her temple.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Status?
EMH: Stand by, Captain. I'm making the final adjustments.
TORRES: I'm not sure how I feel about getting inside Tom's head.
EMH: Maybe you'll be able to explain a few things when you get back.

[Alice]

ALICE: I knew you were the one. No one's ever got me this close before.
PARIS: I'll have you home in just a few minutes.
ALICE: I promise you won't be disappointed.
TORRES: Don't believe her.
PARIS: Where's Alice?
TORRES: There is no Alice. She's a pile of circuits in the ship's computer core. You're letting a programme delude you.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Doctor to bridge. She's in.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Now.
TUVOK: Accessing their main computer.

[Alice]

PARIS: You don't understand. This is what I've always dreamed of.
TORRES: You're still dreaming, And when you wake up you're in for a big surprise.
PARIS: Alice needs me.
TORRES: So do I.
ALICE: Nice sentiment, but it's a lie. Your family will do anything to keep us apart. Don't listen to them.
TORRES: Tom, it's me. B'Elanna. Alice is an illusion.
ALICE: I'm giving you what you always wanted, something they can never do. Does that sound like an illusion?
PARIS: I can't think. Leave me alone, both of you.
ALICE: They've accessed our systems. They're trying to disable my shields. Stop them.
TORRES: Focus on me. Listen to me.
ALICE: My shields are failing. Do something.
TORRES: It's time to come home.
ALICE: Tom.
PARIS: No!
TORRES: Hang on. We're going to get you out of here.
ALICE: Tom!
PARIS: No!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I've got it, Captain. Their shields are down.
JANEWAY: Beam him to Sickbay.
KIM: There's too much interference from the particle fountain.
CHAKOTAY: I'm boosting the confinement beam. Try it now.
KIM: We've got him.
TUVOK: Alice is losing helm control.
(Alice plunges into the particle fountain and explodes.)
JANEWAY: Resume course to the Alpha Quadrant.

[Sickbay]

(Paris is clean-shaven and back in Starfleet uniform.)
EMH: You'll need a few days to fully recover. Think you can manage to stay off your feet for that long?
TORRES: If he doesn't, I'll break his legs.
EMH: Well then, I'll leave you to B'Elanna's tender mercies.
TORRES: I've got something for you. It's a get well card from Naomi Wildman. It's a pretty good likeness of you, but I don't think she quite captured my eyes.
PARIS: I'm sorry. For everything.
TORRES: It wasn't your fault.
PARIS: But I remember all of it. Everything I said, everything I did. It was like I was sleepwalking.
TORRES: The important thing is, you woke up.
PARIS: Yeah. Thanks for being my alarm clock.
TORRES: Any time.
PARIS: From now on, I promise no more affairs with strange ships.
TORRES: What about the Delta Flyer?
PARIS: We're just friends.
(They kiss.)


S6 E6
Riddles
Stardate: 53263.2
Original Airdate: 3 November 1999

Ambassador's log, stardate 53263.2. Though helpful during my negotiations on the Kesat homeworld, Commander Tuvok certainly hasn't been the most sociable of travel companions.
[Delta Flyer]

(Tuvok is in the pilot's seat, Neelix is behind him, tapping his fingers.)
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Sorry. How about a game of Species, Starship or Anomaly?
TUVOK: Surely you could find something more productive to occupy your time.
NEELIX: Come on, Tuvok, it'll be fun. You think of something, species, anomaly, or starship, and I have fifteen questions to guess what it is. Come on, come on, come on, come on.
TUVOK: I would prefer some peace and quiet.
NEELIX: How about a riddle?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Come on, it'll be fun.
TUVOK: I have no desire for fun.
NEELIX: Okay, forget fun. A good riddle can stimulate the mind. Now, no self-respecting Vulcan could say no to that.
TUVOK: Very well. One riddle.
NEELIX: Okay, here goes. A lone Ensign finds himself stranded on a class L planetoid with no rations. His only possession, a calendar. When Starfleet finds him twelve months later, he's in perfect health. Why didn't he starve to death?
TUVOK: It is a theoretical possibility that such planetoids contain hot water springs, which could sustain the man for several weeks.
NEELIX: But not for a whole year.
TUVOK: I concur. Logic dictates that the Ensign in question would perish.
NEELIX: Ah ha, ha ha! I stumped you. As a matter of fact, he not only survived, but his belly was full. Why? Because he feasted on dates from the calendar.
TUVOK: Your answer is merely wordplay, it has no basis in reality. Now, if you'll excuse me.
NEELIX: Where are you going?
TUVOK: To find some peace and quiet.
NEELIX: Have fun.

[Delta Flyer - aft section]

(Tuvok picks up a PADD to read, then notices one of the screen is active.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Neelix.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

NEELIX: Miss me already, Commander?
TUVOK [OC]: Did you activate the aft tactical station?
NEELIX: No.

[Delta Flyer - aft section]

NEELIX [OC]: Why?
TUVOK: There appears to be a download in progress.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

NEELIX: That's odd.
TUVOK [OC]: I'm detecting

[Delta Flyer - aft section]

TUVOK: Anomalous readings.
NEELIX [OC]: What sort of readings?
TUVOK: I'm not certain. But I believe it's a cloaking frequency that
(A bulkhead appears to wibble, and an energy beam hits Tuvok.)
TUVOK:  Argh!

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

NEELIX: Commander?

[Delta Flyer - aft section]

(Tuvok is lying on the deck, twitching. His tricorder is a smoking wreck.)
NEELIX: Tuvok! Delta Flyer to Voyager. Mayday! Tuvok, what happened?

[Sickbay]

(Tuvok is still twitching, and several large veins are standing out across his face.)
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: He's in neuraleptic shock. I'll need another twenty milligrams of synaptizine.
NEELIX: I'll get it.
EMH: It's not working. I'll need to try direct cortical stimulation. Initiate a neurostatic pulse on my mark.
JANEWAY: Right.
EMH: Now. Again.
(Tuvok stops twitching.)
EMH: His vital signs have stabilised, for the moment anyway, But he suffered severe neurological trauma.
JANEWAY: Do you know what caused it?
EMH: Some kind of alien weapon.
NEELIX: By the time I reached Tuvok, whoever had attacked him was gone.
JANEWAY: What about the surrounding space? Any indication of cloaked vessels?
NEELIX: Between trying to tend to the Commander and piloting the Flyer, I had my hands full. I, I didn't think to scan for cloaked ships. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: You saved Tuvok's life, Neelix. You have nothing to be sorry about. How do you plan to treat him?
EMH: I won't know until I've run a series of neurological scans, but it would certainly help to know something about the weapon.
JANEWAY: Neelix, these Kesat you were negotiating with. Any reason to believe they might know something about this?
NEELIX: It couldn't hurt to ask.
JANEWAY: Time to reopen diplomatic channels.

[Briefing room]

NAROQ: Deputy investigator Naroq, Kesat security. Captain Janeway, Commander Chakotay, Ambassador Neelix.
JANEWAY: You've done your homework.
NAROQ: I familiarised myself with the facts on the way here.
CHAKOTAY: We're hoping you can help us shed some light on what happened to our crewman.
NAROQ: I believe I can. Based on the information you provided, it is my opinion that he was a victim of the Ba'Neth.
JANEWAY: I've never heard of them.
NAROQ: I'm not surprised. In my language, their name means shadow people. They're a species obsessed with concealing their identity. Extremely paranoid and xenophobic.
JANEWAY: Well, that explains their cloaking technology.
NAROQ: It's my belief they've been responsible for several unexplained attacks similar to this one.
NEELIX: Why wasn't I warned about them during my negotiations with your government?
NAROQ: Because my government's official position is that the Ba'Neth do not exist. Most people think they're a myth.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing mythical about what happened to Mister Tuvok. Why is your government so sceptical?
NAROQ: Because there've been so few encounters with the Ba'Neth and, well, no one's ever actually seen one.
JANEWAY: How many encounters are we talking about, exactly?
NAROQ: Before this incident? Twelve.
CHAKOTAY: I guess we're lucky thirteen.
NAROQ: You're lucky I gave my supervisor two bottles of Kesatian ale to get this assignment. Any other inspector would have simply attributed Commander Tuvok's injuries to unexplained phenomenon.
JANEWAY: No offence, Mister Naroq, but what makes you so sure the Ba'Neth aren't just a myth?
NAROQ: This incident fits the pattern, Captain. All of the alleged encounters have occurred aboard vessels foreign to this sector. I believe they've been attempts by the Ba'Neth to assess the technology of new arrivals.
NEELIX: They were trying to download tactical data.
NAROQ: And Commander Tuvok suffered severe neural damage. That's also consistent with previous attacks. The Ba'Neth were making sure he would not tell anyone what he saw.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's why Tuvok's tricorder was destroyed. They didn't want us to see the cloaking frequency he'd found.
NAROQ: He found a cloaking frequency?
JANEWAY: Apparently.
NAROQ: Captain, I don't blame you for finding my theories a bit eccentric. I'm used to it. It's why I'm still a deputy investigator, but I've brought equipment to help your investigation. Let me examine Commander Tuvok and run scans on the vessel where he was attacked. I may finally be able to prove my theories.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, we're more interested in saving Tuvok's life.
NAROQ: If we work together, maybe we can do both.

[Sickbay]

EMH: His cognitive, memory and logic centres have all been severely damaged.
NAROQ: But he still has brain activity, which is more than I can say for any of the previous victims.
EMH: Vulcan neural tissue is extremely resilient. I have no doubt that a brain from a lesser species would not have survived.
NAROQ: If you could only tell us what you saw, Mister Tuvok.
EMH: I don't think we'll be hearing from him any time soon.
JANEWAY: Keep working. I'll let you know if we find anything that might help. I'll take you to see where the attack occurred.
(Janeway and Naroq leave.)
EMH: Something I can do for you, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: I want to help.
EMH: Unless you have a degree in Vulcan neurobiology that I'm not aware of, there's nothing you can do.
NEELIX: There must be something.
EMH: My advice is to return to your quarters and get some rest.
NEELIX: There's no way that I'm going to be able to sleep knowing that Tuvok is lying here like this.
EMH: There have been rare cases in which comatose patients responded to external stimuli. Aromas, touch, voices.
NEELIX: So, you're saying that if I stay here and, and try to talk to Tuvok, I might be able to provoke some sort of response?
EMH: If anyone can provoke Tuvok, Mister Neelix, it's you.
(Later, Neelix is wheeling a trolley full of Tuvok's possessions into Sickbay.)
NEELIX: Good morning, Tuvok. I brought you a few more items from your quarters to help liven up Sickbay. Your kal-toh game, in case you decide you're ready for a match. Oh, and I also thought that you might enjoy a recitation of that classic proto-Vulcan drama, Clash on the Fire Plains. I'll be performing all twenty three parts myself. I also brought you some flowers from the Airponics bay. Oh, that's fragrant, isn't it? Perhaps you'd enjoy some Vulcan incense. How about some music? Computer, access Vulcan audio file, selection fifty six alpha.
EMH: Mister Neelix. What is that dreadful noise?
NEELIX: The Chants of the Monks of T'Panit. Personally, I think it's dreadful, too, but it's one of Tuvok's favourites.
EMH: I appreciate your efforts, Mister Neelix, but I'm trying to analyse his latest neurological scans and this music is very distracting.
NEELIX: You said I was supposed to stimulate his senses.
EMH: I said stimulate them, Mister Neelix, not annihilate them.
NEELIX: Computer, pause music.
EMH: Thank you.
(The EMH returns to his office. Tuvok has sat up on his biobed.)
NEELIX: Doctor? Tuvok. You've had an accident. You're in Sickbay.
EMH: Relax, Commander, I only want to scan you.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Tuvok, he's only trying to help you. It's only a tricorder. See? It won't hurt you.
(Neelix demonstrates by scanning himself.)
NEELIX: Now try it.
EMH: Well done, Mister Neelix.

[Delta Flyer - aft section]

JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay says you've found something.
NAROQ: That, Captain, is an understatement. Listen.
(Naroq's device beeps faster as he approaches the bulkhead that wibbled.)
JANEWAY: What is it?
NAROQ: The sound of history being made.
JANEWAY: Less poetry, Mister Naroq, more facts.
NAROQ: The sound you're hearing indicates the presence of veridium isotopes.
SEVEN: Residual particles from the Ba'Neth's cloaking field.
JANEWAY: You've detected these isotopes before?
NAROQ: Yes, but only after they've decayed. You see, veridium has a very brief half-life, less than seventy hours. The previous sites I've studied have been months, sometimes years old.
JANEWAY: But these isotopes are still active.
SEVEN: We can use Mister Naroq's photolytic converter to illuminate them.
NAROQ: So you see, Captain, why this is an historic moment? We may finally learn what the Ba'Neth look like.
JANEWAY: Well, let's see what we've got.
(The converter flashes, and a shape starts to form.)
NAROQ: You don't know how long I've waited to meet you.
JANEWAY: So the Ba'Neth aren't a myth after all.
NAROQ: This is the clearest image ever captured.
SEVEN: Perhaps. I believe I can adjust our internal sensors to improve it.
NAROQ: What are you doing? You might disrupt the image entirely. Tentacles. I always suspected they were multipeds!
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the Captain. Please report to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. Seven, if we can integrate Mister Naroq's photolytic technology into the deflector array, we might be able to decloak a Ba'Neth ship.
NAROQ: The technology only works at close range. We have to find the ship before we can expose it. We still need that cloaking frequency.
JANEWAY: One step at a time.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: The Vulcan brain. A puzzle wrapped inside an enigma housed inside a cranium. Tuvok's neural pathways have begun to bypass the damaged tissue. They're forming new synaptic connections. In effect, his brain is rewiring itself. Whether this is due to my neurostatic therapy, or Neelix's rehabilitation regimen, or some combination of the two I can't be certain.
JANEWAY: Is there any chance he'll make a full recovery?
EMH: It's much too soon to say, but he's alert and he's already regained his basic motor skills.
JANEWAY: But still no speech.
NEELIX: It's only a matter of time, Captain. Look how far he's come already.
JANEWAY: I hope you're right, Neelix, but if he could talk he might be able to tell us something about that cloaking frequency.
(Tuvok is enjoying smelling the flowers Neelix brought in.)
EMH: We're not sure how much he recalls. For that matter, we're not certain he recognises any of us, or even knows who he is.
NEELIX: I'm going to take him on a tour of the ship. The Doctor thinks that familiar sights and sounds might get the old synaptic juices flowing. Don't worry, Captain. Tuvok will be back to his old self before you can say live long and prosper.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: I've brought a visitor.
CHAKOTAY: Good to see you up and around.
NEELIX: You remember Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We were just running a shield diagnostic. Would you like to take a look?
NEELIX: This is tactical station, where you work.
(Kim is currently standing there.)
KIM: Just keeping it warm for you. Hope you don't mind. That's the shield array. This controls the tractor emitters.
NEELIX: I think he remembers it.
KIM: Whoa, whoa, whoa! He just activated the photon torpedo banks.
NEELIX: That's all right, Tuvok. Everybody makes mistakes. We'll be back later.

[Tuvok's quarters]

NEELIX: Last, but not least, your quarters. You spend a lot of time here. Reading, meditating. Mister Paris once referred to it as the Vulcan vault. Ah. Look around, explore.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Astrometrics to the Bridge. Mister Naroq and I have completed our deflector modifications. We're ready to test the array.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Stand by. Reduce speed to one quarter impulse. Harry, full power to the deflector array.
KIM: Aye.
JANEWAY: All right, Seven, do it.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Activating the deflector.

[Bridge]

(The pulse lights up a spaceship directly ahead of them.)
PARIS: I'd call that a pretty successful test.
CHAKOTAY: They've been watching us all along.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: Which one? There's practically a fleet out there.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. We intend you no harm.
KIM: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields.  
(Whumph!)
PARIS: They're scrambling, Captain, in all directions.
JANEWAY: Follow the lead vessel.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok is hiding underneath the table. He is terrified.)
NEELIX: It's okay, Tuvok. I'm here with you. Everything is going to be all right. You're safe with me.

[Bridge]

KIM: Still no response to our hails.
PARIS: I hate to ruin a good chase, but the Ba'Neth ship is moving out of the deflector's range.
JANEWAY: Seven, can you get

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Their cloaking frequency?
SEVEN: They're blocking our scans.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We've lost them.

[Tuvok's quarters]

NEELIX: They're gone now, Tuvok. I told you you'd be safe.
TUVOK: Yes, you did.
NEELIX: Tuvok? What? Tell me, what did I do?
TUVOK: You told me I wouldn't be hurt.
NEELIX: Do you know who I am?
TUVOK: You're Neelix. I'm safe with you.

[Ready room]

NAROQ: We need Tuvok to tell us anything he can remember about the attack.
NEELIX: Captain, he may be talking again, but that doesn't mean he's ready to be interrogated. He's beginning to experience emotions, volatile ones. During this last encounter with the Ba'Neth, he was terrified.
JANEWAY: We'll tread lightly, I promise.
NEELIX: All right, Tuvok, you can come in now.
JANEWAY: It's nice to see you.
TUVOK: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: That's right. This is Mister Naroq. Please sit down. Two days ago, you were aboard a shuttle with Mister Neelix. You detected a cloaked intruder.
NAROQ: He attacked you.
TUVOK: Yes. That's why I'm having difficulty now.
JANEWAY: Yes, and in order to help you, we have to find the people who hurt you.
NAROQ: Before the intruder injured you, you managed to scan him with this. You recorded his cloaking frequency, but the tricorder was damaged and the information was lost. Can you tell us anything about that frequency?
JANEWAY: Try to remember.
TUVOK: I was scanning.
JANEWAY: That's right. What did you see?
TUVOK: I, I don't remember.
NAROQ: Try!
JANEWAY: All right, that's enough. We're done for now.
NAROQ: But, Captain.
JANEWAY: Join Seven of Nine in Astrometrics. See if she's made any progress with the Ba'Neth.  
(Naroq nods and leaves.)
NEELIX: Well, er, we should be going, too. A few of the crew have offered to help with Tuvok's rehabilitation.
JANEWAY: I thought we might have lunch later, just the two of us.
TUVOK: I prefer to stay with Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, Tuvok. I'm, I'm sure that you would
JANEWAY: It's all right. You two go ahead. I have a lot of work to do anyway.

[Mess hall]

(It is Kim's turn to teach kal-toh to Tuvok.)
KIM: The object of the game is to turn this jumble of rods into a perfect sphere. We take turns positioning our pieces. Whoever gets the shape to appear first, wins.
TUVOK: I like the way it looks now.
KIM: What do you say we give it a try?
NEELIX: This has always been one of your favourite games, Tuvok. It helps keep your logic sharp.
KIM: I'll go first. Now you.
NEELIX: Go ahead.
(Tuvok places a rod, and the shape crumbles.)
TUVOK: I don't like this game.
KIM: When you first taught me how to play, I wasn't very good either. But you kept encouraging me, and pretty soon I scored my first kal-toh. It just takes practice, that's all.
NEELIX: Try again. You can do it.
TUVOK: I don't like this game!

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: The Doctor helped me access my personnel file.
NEELIX: Nice picture. You should see mine. It's awful.
TUVOK: I was an instructor at Starfleet Academy. I've received seventeen commendations for valour. I'm a husband, a father.
NEELIX: You're an extraordinary fellow, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I was an extraordinary fellow.
NEELIX: You're still the same person.
TUVOK: Then why do I no longer work on the bridge?
NEELIX: We talked about that. You had an accident.
TUVOK: And now I'm not smart enough.
NEELIX: Tuvok, you've just got to be patient. Look how much progress you've made already.
TUVOK: He could dismantle a photonic warhead in less than thirty seconds. I can't even play kal-toh.
NEELIX: It's going to take time, but you'll relearn all those things.
TUVOK: How do you know that?
NEELIX: Well, because the Doctor
TUVOK: The Doctor? The Doctor doesn't know how to make me better, does he?
NEELIX: Well, not yet, but
TUVOK: I'll never be him again.
NEELIX: You don't know that. The Vulcan mind.
TUVOK: I'm not a Vulcan. Not any more!
(Tuvok starts throwing things around.)
EMH: What's going on?
NEELIX: It's okay Doctor, I can handle this. Please, Tuvok, try to relax. Everything's going to be fine.
TUVOK: No! Nothing's fine! Get away from me!
EMH: You'd better go. Now, Mister Neelix. I'll take it from here.

[Mess hall]

(The only person here is Seven, looking out of a window.)
NEELIX: Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt.
SEVEN: You didn't.
NEELIX: Yes, I did. You were pondering. Something difficult, by the looks of it. Anything I can help you with?
SEVEN: Unlikely.
NEELIX: Try me.
SEVEN: How do you find something that's invisible?
NEELIX: The Ba'Neth.
SEVEN: We have the ability to illuminate them. But to do so we must first locate them, which we cannot accomplish without their cloaking frequency.
NEELIX: That's quite a riddle.
SEVEN: One that we might be able to solve if Commander Tuvok could tell us what he saw. How is his rehabilitation progressing?
NEELIX: Oh, I thought it was going great, but now? Let's just say that I've got a riddle of my own.
SEVEN: Try me.
NEELIX: All right. When is a Vulcan no longer a Vulcan?
SEVEN: When his genetic code is sufficiently altered.
NEELIX: No, I was speaking metaphorically.
SEVEN: In that case, a person is no longer Vulcan when he has lost his logic.
NEELIX: Right. And how does he get it back?
SEVEN: He must be taught.
NEELIX: Exactly. But what if he's brain-damaged and emotionally unstable? How does he learn?
SEVEN: It may be impossible for him to learn what you're trying to teach.
NEELIX: Well, thanks for the pep talk.
SEVEN: I was merely suggesting that you adapt to the circumstances.
NEELIX: What circumstances? Are you saying that the Tuvok I know is gone? That I should stop trying to help him?
SEVEN: When I was separated from the Collective I, too, was damaged. I was no longer connected to the hive mind. I lost many abilities that I had acquired as a drone, but I adapted.
NEELIX: Because Captain Janeway didn't give up on you. She kept trying to help you.
SEVEN: But not by restoring me to what I'd been. By helping me discover what I could become.

[Sickbay]

(Tuvok is sculpting in wax.)
NEELIX: What are you making?
TUVOK: A flower. It's for you.
NEELIX: Thank you. I'm not sure I deserve a gift.
TUVOK: I shouldn't have shouted at you. I was angry. I'm sorry.
NEELIX: You were frustrated. I don't blame you. I'm the one who should be apologising.
TUVOK: Why?
NEELIX: Because I was pushing you too hard. I was trying to mould you into something you weren't.
TUVOK: You were disappointed in me because I can't do anything as well as I did before.
NEELIX: Maybe there are things that you can do better.
TUVOK: What can I do better?
NEELIX: Well, this, for example. You would've considered it an illogical use of your time.
TUVOK: It's not good.
NEELIX: No, it's wonderful. It's creative. It's a symbol of friendship. Before your accident, you never would have considered that my feelings might have been hurt. You would have certainly never have made me a gift.
TUVOK: We weren't friends?
NEELIX: Ah, we were colleagues, and I certainly felt affection for you.
TUVOK: But I didn't return those feelings.
NEELIX: You tolerated me.
TUVOK: I don't understand.
NEELIX: You said things like 'Mister Neelix, please contain your exuberance.' And, 'Mister Neelix I have no desire for fun.' And you never smiled. You've got a much better sense of humour now.
TUVOK: I like to smile.
NEELIX: Me, too.
TUVOK: I don't want to play kal-toh any more. Or meditate, or work on logic problems.
NEELIX: You don't have to.
TUVOK: What can we do instead?
NEELIX: Whatever you want.
TUVOK: Teach me things that you like to do.

[Mess hall]

TUVOK: Here we are. A triple-chocolate wikki fruit sundae with warm fetran sauce.
PARIS: Fetran sauce on a sundae?
NEELIX: Wait till you taste it.
KIM: You really made this?
TUVOK: As Neelix says, dig in.
KIM: Mmm, this is great.
PARIS: This is fantastic.
NEELIX: What did I tell you? Tuvok has a flair for food. All morning, he's been creating new recipes using combinations of ingredients that I never would have imagined. For example. A terra nut soufflé, Jibalian fudge cake with peppermint coulis, sweet leola root tart. Mmm.
PARIS: Only desserts? How come?
TUVOK: They taste good.
KIM: Hey, you better watch out, Neelix. Tuvok may put you out of a job.
(Janeway enters.)
PARIS: From your mouth to the Captain's ears.
KIM: She must have heard me.
JANEWAY: What's all this?
TUVOK: We're having fun.
PARIS: It turns out Tuvok is quite the pastry chef.
TUVOK: Would you like some terra nut soufflé, Captain?
JANEWAY:I'd love some. Thank you. Oh, that is delicious.
TUVOK: I am pleased that you like it.
JANEWAY: What are you making now?
TUVOK: Pistachio cake with parra-cream sauce.
JANEWAY: Oh, parra-cream's my favourite.
TUVOK: Then you'll have the first piece.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, have you remembered anything more about what happened on the Flyer?
TUVOK: I detected a cloaking frequency.
JANEWAY: Yes, that's right. Can you describe it?
TUVOK: I don't know, I
JANEWAY: Did it have a symmetric modulation? Was the amplitude constant?
TUVOK: I don't understand.
(Tuvok has an icing bag in his hand.)
JANEWAY: It's all right. I don't mean to push you, Tuvok but maybe if we could
NEELIX: It's difficult for him, Captain. Maybe you can try again tomorrow.
TUVOK: This. This is what I saw.
(He has iced the modulation pattern onto a cake.)
NEELIX: What is it?
JANEWAY: A cloaking frequency.

Captain's log, supplemental. The computer has analysed Tuvok's diagram and identified the Ba'Neth cloaking frequency. We've narrowed the search to a handful of systems.

[Bridge]

KIM: Here we go, Captain. A nine million terrawatt cloaking field in grid two one six.
CHAKOTAY: Nine million terrawatts? Whatever they're hiding, it's huge.
JANEWAY: Alter course, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Astrometrics. Status.
SEVEN [OC]: The deflector array is ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Raise shields.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: We're within range.
JANEWAY: All right, Seven. Light them up.
(A spacestation appears.)
KIM: It's an armed outpost. Approximately three thousand life signs, twenty two ships.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: No response, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Open a channel, all subspace bands.
CHAKOTAY: They're firing.
JANEWAY: Cease fire immediately, or I'll transmit the coordinates of this outpost to the Kesat homeworld.
PARIS: That got their attention.
JANEWAY: Several days ago, a member of your species attacked one of my crewmen. He was badly injured. In order to treat him, I need to know more about the weapon that was used.
KIM: They're responding. Audio only.
(The Ba'Neth sound as if they are gargling.)
BA'NETH [OC]: We do not share technology.
JANEWAY: But you take it from others. The attacker was downloading our tactical database when the incident occurred.
BA'NETH [OC]: We must assess potential threats.
NAROQ: Paranoid, just as I predicted.
JANEWAY: In exchange for information about your weapon, we'll provide you with tactical data on several species we've recently encountered. You can assess their potential threats all you want.
BA'NETH [OC]: The Kesat investigator aboard your vessel cannot be trusted.
NAROQ: You know about me?
BA'NETH [OC]: You have been attempting to expose us for years. You are a threat. You must be stopped.
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons again.
NAROQ: Wait. It was my photolytic converter that allowed Voyager to decloak you. If you give Captain Janeway what she wants, I'll give you the converter. You can use it to adapt your technology so ours can no longer expose you.
JANEWAY: I doubt you'll get as enticing an offer from the Kesat homeworld. It would be a shame if you forced me to hail them.
BA'NETH [OC]: We have an agreement.

[Tuvok's quarters]

TUVOK: Enter.
NEELIX: What are you listening to?
TUVOK: A selection from Tom's jazz database. It really swings. Computer, pause the music. I've been reviewing the holodeck files. I wish to visit the Risa water recreation park. Will you accompany me?
NEELIX: Maybe after your Doctor's appointment.
TUVOK: Appointment?
NEELIX: The Doctor's analysed the Ba'Neth weapon, and he's devised a procedure to treat you. You should be proud of yourself. If you hadn't drawn that picture on the cake, we may never have found a treatment.
TUVOK: I wish I never drew that picture.
NEELIX: Why?
TUVOK: Because I don't wish to undergo the procedure.
NEELIX: You're having pre-operative jitters, that's all. Don't worry, everyone gets them. Just think about it. In a few hours, you'll be yourself again.
TUVOK: I am myself.
NEELIX: But you'll be able to do all the things that you used to do. Work on the bridge, advise the Captain.
TUVOK: I want to be able to have fun. With you. I won't be able to, will I?
NEELIX: Well, you won't call it fun. You'll call it deriving satisfaction. But it's basically the same thing. You'll still experience emotions.
TUVOK: But I won't express them.
NEELIX: Probably not.
TUVOK: Then how will you know how much I enjoy being with you?
NEELIX: You've just told me.
TUVOK: We'll still be friends?
NEELIX: Of course.
TUVOK: Even if I merely tolerate you?
NEELIX: I'd be lying if I told you that things between us will stay the same.
TUVOK: Well, why? Why do you want me to go back to the way I was?
NEELIX: Because this crew needs its tactical officer on the bridge. And I wouldn't be a very good friend if I ignored that just so that you'd be nicer to me.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Mister Tuvok. I was beginning to think you weren't coming.
TUVOK: I was experiencing pre-operative jitters. Neelix helped me overcome them.
EMH: Glad to hear it. Now please, lie down.
TUVOK: I'll see you after the procedure?
NEELIX: Of course.
(Tuvok goes into the surgical bay and lies down.)
NEELIX: I'm going to miss him.
EMH: Me, too.

[Mess hall]

(Tuvok enters, in uniform and working on a PADD.)
NEELIX: Hello, Commander.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: It's good to see you up and about. Are you feeling better?
TUVOK: The Doctor has approved my return to duty.
NEELIX: That's wonderful news. How about a celebratory glass of champagne?
TUVOK: Tea will suffice.
NEELIX: Of course. I'm preparing a special dinner tonight in honour of your recovery. I don't suppose that you'd be interested in preparing one of your famous desserts?
TUVOK: I have much more important things to do than engage in the preparation of nutritionally deficient foods.
NEELIX: Maybe another time.
TUVOK: Sundaes.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
TUVOK: I have given further consideration to your riddle regarding the Ensign who survived by consuming the dates from his calendar. It occurs to me that he could also have eaten the Sundaes.
NEELIX: That's a very clever answer, Mister Vulcan, But it's not very logical, is it?
TUVOK: No, it's not.


S6 E7
Dragon's Teeth
Stardate: 53167.9
Original Airdate: 10 November, 1999

[Vaadwaur cave - stasis chamber]
(A city is under aerial bombardment. Below ground, a female with a tall ridge along the top of her head and a very pointed chin is dodging falling rocks.)
JISA: Gedrin! Gedrin! What happened? I lost you.
(She finally runs into a male.)
GEDRIN: Thirty seven bio-pods were damaged. I had to disconnect them from the reactor.
JISA: Were they dead?
GEDRIN: I had no choice. The main power's holding. The rest of the bio-pods are secure. That leaves us. Don't look so worried. It'll be like a simple night's sleep. We're out of time.
(Jisa gets into a bio-pod.)
JISA: Do you think we'll dream?
GEDRIN: I don't know. We'll get through this.
JISA: What if there's nothing left?
GEDRIN: We'll start again. Five years.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We've entered some kind of a subspace corridor.
PARIS: We were cruising at warp six then, wham, this thing pulled at our warp field like a magnet.
JANEWAY: Where did that debris come from?
TUVOK: Unknown, but the corridor is filled with it. Metal fragments, plasma exhaust, organic residue.
SEVEN: Some of the debris is over eight hundred years old, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'd like to avoid becoming part of this garbage stream. Can you find a way out?
PARIS: I don't now. There's hundreds of corridors. It's like a maze.
JANEWAY: Well, be a good rat and find us the cheese, hmm?
PARIS: I'll do my best, Captain.
(An object with two glowing points of light is also travelling in the corridor. They overtake it very rapidly.)
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: It was a vessel, sir. They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
(It is a pale alien with lots of elaborate bony bits around its face.)
TUREI [on viewscreen]: Who are you?
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager. And you are?
TUREI [on viewscreen]: This underspace belongs to us.
JANEWAY: We're here by accident. We're trying to find a way out. Can you help us?
TUREI [on viewscreen]: Help you? Yes, we'll help you.
TUVOK: They are targeting our shields with a resonance pulse. It's altering the harmonics. We're being pushed out of the corridor.
PARIS: We're clear.
TUVOK: The vessel has exited the corridor as well.
PARIS: Captain, we're over two hundred light years from where we entered the corridor.
KIM: Two hundred light years in five minutes?
JANEWAY: Hail them. Thank you for your help. There's something I'd like to ask you. We've got a long journey ahead of us and I was wondering if we could negotiate passage through this underspace of yours.
TUREI [on viewscreen]: Lower your shields. Prepare to be boarded.
CHAKOTAY: Boarded? For what reason?
TUREI [on viewscreen]: We must purge your computer. Remove all readings you've gathered in our territory.
JANEWAY: We pose no threat to you. We're simply trying
TUREI [on viewscreen]: We're going to destroy that information, one way or another. Lower your shields.
JANEWAY: I won't do that.
(Transmission ends, and Turei starts firing at Voyager.)
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Try to disable them.
TUVOK: Their vessel is highly manoeuvrable. It's difficult to get a phaser lock.
KIM: Picking up two more ships heading our way .
PARIS: Direct hit. Our warp drive is offline.
TUVOK: Shields down to eighty two percent. Sixty percent.
PARIS: They're closing.
CHAKOTAY: We could use some clever suggestions about now.
SEVEN: There's a planet eight million kilometres ahead, uninhabited. But the atmosphere is charged with radiogenic particles.
CHAKOTAY: How radiogenic?
SEVEN: Three thousand isorems.
CHAKOTAY: If we route enough power to the shields we can survive in that, but maybe our friends can't.
TUVOK: Shields at fifty three percent.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Entering the thermosphere.
KIM: Radiation levels at three thousand isorems and climbing.
CHAKOTAY: The alien ships?
TUVOK: In pursuit and charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Increase our descent vector.
PARIS: They're still closing.
TUVOK: Direct hit to our aft shields.
JANEWAY: Find the highest concentration of radiation, and take us through it.
KIM: Proximity radiation at four thousand isorems. Five thousand. Six.
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening. They're breaking off.
JANEWAY: Now, all we need is a place to set down and make repairs. Tom?
PARIS: We're clearing the lower stratosphere.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(They see the ruined city.)
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said this planet was uninhabited.
KIM: Radiation must have interfered with my scans.
PARIS: I doubt it's inhabited anymore. Looks like this planet's in the middle of a nuclear winter.
TUVOK: Agreed. Gamma radiation levels are highly toxic. The impact crater suggests an orbital bombardment.
JANEWAY: How long ago?
KIM: From the rate of radiogenic decay, eight hundred ninety two years.
JANEWAY: This must have been a city of millions. Set us down.
(Paris obeys. Voyager lands in the middle of the ruins.)
PARIS: Disengaging engines.
JANEWAY: Stand down red alert. Assign damage repair teams, And Tom, make sure B'Elanna has enough help in Engineering. I want those warp engines back online.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: Our friends are still in orbit.
CHAKOTAY: Circling like vultures.
JANEWAY: Well, they're going to go hungry.
CHAKOTAY: Not if they find a way to adapt their shields and come down after us.
KIM: Captain, I'm detecting faint life signs coming from a chamber several hundred metres beneath the surface.
JANEWAY: Survivors?
CHAKOTAY: After nine hundred years?
JANEWAY: Oversee the repair teams.
CHAKOTAY: You're going down there?
JANEWAY: If somebody survived this catastrophe they might need our help. Get a good fix on those coordinates. I don't want to beam into solid rock. Seven, Tuvok, You're with me.

[Vaadwaur cave - stasis chamber]

JANEWAY: These walls have been reinforced with tritonium. They built this place to last.
TUVOK: Most of the power relays are still active.
JANEWAY: Not bad after nine centuries.
SEVEN: The main reactor is drawing energy from the planet's geothermal core. Efficient.
TUVOK: Some kind of stasis pod.
SEVEN: This display indicates that there are more chambers behind these walls. Some of them have failed.
JANEWAY: It's amazing they survived at all. Let's see what else we can find.
(Seven looks at Gedrin asleep in his bio-pod, then goes to its controls. She taps at the alien symbols, and the pod opens.)
JANEWAY: Seven, what are you doing?
SEVEN: I've activated the reanimation sequence. He may be able to provide us with answers.
TUVOK: We don't know anything about this species. They could be hostile.
SEVEN: Most humanoid cultures are.
JANEWAY: Remind me to reacquaint you with away mission protocols.
(Gedrin wakes as Janeway is scanning him. She puts her tricorder away and gets out her phaser.)
GEDRIN: Who
JANEWAY: It's all right. We're not your enemy. We're from a starship. We discovered this chamber and revived you.
GEDRIN: How long was I
JANEWAY: In stasis? Close to nine hundred years.
GEDRIN: Nine hundred? Jisa. Help her, please.
(Seven goes to the other bio-pod and activates it. Gedrin totters over and gazes at a dessicated corpse.)
GEDRIN: No, Jisa. She was my wife.

[Sickbay]

(Gedrin sits up suddenly on a biobed.)
EMH: I won't hurt you.
GEDRIN: I was drifting in and out of consciousness when they brought me here, but I thought I saw you appear out of thin air.
EMH: I'm a computer programme. A hologram.
GEDRIN: And the others?
(Janeway and Seven enter.)
EMH: Flesh and blood, like yourself.
GEDRIN: You're the ones that took me out of stasis. I don't recognise your species.
JANEWAY: Human. Our home planet is halfway across the galaxy.
GEDRIN: And you've expanded your territory into this space?
JANEWAY: Our ship was brought here by accident. We're trying to get home.
GEDRIN: You're Borg.
SEVEN: How do you know that?
GEDRIN: Don't you recognise my people? The Vaadwaur?
SEVEN: The Collective's memory from nine hundred years ago is fragmentary.
GEDRIN: I've had many encounters with your kind.
EMH: And lived to tell about them? Impressive.
GEDRIN: How did you find us?
JANEWAY: We needed someplace to hide from the Turei after they found us in one of their subspace corridors.
GEDRIN: Their corridors?
JANEWAY: So they claimed.
GEDRIN: The corridors were ours. It took centuries to map them. We were the envy of a hundred species, including the Turei.
JANEWAY: Are they responsible for what happened to your planet?
GEDRIN: The Turei, and a dozen others. What one couldn't accomplish the others finally did. I would like to look at what's left of my world.

[Mess hall]

GEDRIN: We made our final stand there.
JANEWAY: I've scanned the cavern. You've got a thousand more stasis pods down there, most of them still active. Hundreds of ships, land vehicles, weapons.
GEDRIN: A single battalion, and their families. We had planned to come out of stasis after five years. We believed that by then, the Alliance would have been at each other's throats.
JANEWAY: You were going to rebuild?
GEDRIN: No, not here. We knew this planet would be poisoned for centuries. We were planning to go to another world, start a colony, hope to find new allies, learn from them.
JANEWAY: Your power core is still functioning. It was the controls that were damaged in the attack. That's why you never came out of stasis.
GEDRIN: Jisa and I lived there in the old quarter. We had a garden overlooking the street below. It's a shame she didn't show more courage at the end.
JANEWAY: Given the circumstances
GEDRIN: That's no excuse.
JANEWAY: Pardon me for saying this, but that seems a bit heartless.
GEDRIN: When it rains, do you run from doorway to doorway trying to stay dry, getting wet all the while. Or do you just accept the fact that it's raining, and walk with dignity?
JANEWAY: Rain's one thing. Plasma bombs are something else.
GEDRIN: But the principle is the same.
JANEWAY: I'd bring an umbrella.
GEDRIN: Maybe it's not too late to meet a new ally and learn from her.
NEELIX: I took the liberty of preparing a large assortment of Delta Quadrant dishes. Hopefully, there's something here that you'll like.
GEDRIN: You're Talax-ilzay.
NEELIX: Talaxian, but you're right. My ancestors referred to themselves as Talax-ilzay in the old tongue.
GEDRIN: The old tongue was new when I met your race.
JANEWAY: You travelled all the way to Talaxia?
GEDRIN: And farther. Our corridors took us to many worlds. I'm curious. Have you heard of us, the Vaadwaur?
NEELIX: Oh, I'm afraid there aren't many records from that period, but vaadwaur is a word in the old tongue. It means foolish.
I'm sure that it's just a coincidence, of course. I didn't mean to be rude.
GEDRIN: Your ancestors were wise. Only fools would let this happen to them.
(A missile hits the surface and explodes.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Looks like our friends in orbit have found us.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Six Turei vessels are in orbit, all firing plasma charges.
TUVOK: That was two thousand metres to starboard.
KIM: Looks like they can't get an exact fix on our position. The radiogenic atmosphere must be disrupting their targeting.
TUVOK: Nine hundred metres.
PARIS: They're getting closer.
CHAKOTAY: We have the same problem. Our torpedoes won't lock on.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Aft shields down to eighteen percent.
GEDRIN: Captain? Can you transmit a signal through this atmosphere?
JANEWAY: We've already tried talking to them.
GEDRIN: I have no intention of speaking with the Turei. We put a sentry satellite in orbit directly above the city. You could use its sensors to help guide your torpedoes.
TUVOK: It's there. Intact and functional.
GEDRIN: Open a channel. I'll give you the activation code.
(Gedrin does not understand Starfleet consoles.)
GEDRIN: I'm a few centuries out of date.
KIM: You can enter the activation code here. It's processing our telemetry.
JANEWAY: Triangulate. Fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit. The lead ship has lost shields. Its propulsion is down.
GEDRIN: One more torpedo will finish them.
CHAKOTAY: The other ships are retreating.
GEDRIN: Captain, why don't you keep firing?
JANEWAY: We scared them off. That's enough for now.
GEDRIN: But they'll come back with twice as many ships.
JANEWAY: With any luck, our warp drive will be back online by then.
GEDRIN: The Turei may be cowards, but their technology has become much more advanced than ours. If you leave us, we will be slaughtered again.
CHAKOTAY: What do you propose?
GEDRIN: Help us off this planet, and we will show you subspace corridors known to nobody else. You will be free from the Turei, and you will be a thousand light years closer to your home.
JANEWAY: Let's wake up your battalion.

[Vaadwaur cave - central chamber]

(They look down at the ships in the chamber as the lights go on.)
CHAKOTAY: Dragon's teeth.
JANEWAY: Dragon's teeth?
CHAKOTAY: An old Greek myth. After a dragon was killed in a war, its teeth were spread out over the battlefield. They took root and warriors sprung from the ground to continue the fighting.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've revived nearly two hundred of the Vaadwaur and we're moving forward with our unexpected alliance.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Voyager was pulled into the corridor two hundred light years from here.
GAUL: Pulled in?
MORIN: There must have been a break along the radial wall.
GEDRIN: The corridors occur naturally, but they're very unstable. They're damaged by use.
GAUL: Obviously the Turei don't have the wisdom to maintain them properly. They'll be very difficult to navigate after centuries of neglect.
TUVOK: We've only been able to chart a few of the corridors. Can you provide us with a more complete map?
MORIN: We've never kept written records, for security reasons. Of course, we've committed all the corridors to memory. Every multifold, every spatial intersect.
GAUL: We'd be happy to plot a course for you but first, we'll need to get past the Turei, How many vessels are in orbit?
SEVEN: Eleven.
JANEWAY: Mister Gaul, Tuvok, start working on a tactical plan.
GEDRIN: If we do manage to escape, we'll need to locate a habitable world.
JANEWAY: Seven, scan the Astrometric database. See what you can find. Someplace out of the way.
GEDRIN: Morin, take charge of reviving the rest of our battalion.
MORIN: Many of our bio-pods have been damaged. I could use some assistance.
JANEWAY: Our Chief Engineer will be glad to give you a hand.
MORIN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Well, let's get started. We've got a civilisation to rebuild.

[Naomi's bedroom]

(Naomi is playing with a hand puppet.)
NEELIX: No story tonight, Naomi. I had to cook for two hundred people today.
NAOMI: That's okay. I'm tired, too.
NEELIX: Did you get a chance to meet any of the children?
NAOMI: I don't like them.
NEELIX: Why not?
NAOMI: I just don't.
NEELIX: Well, that's not good enough. I'm the ship's ambassador, you're the Captain's assistant. We have to make a good impression on our new friends.
NAOMI: They're not my friends.
NEELIX: Well, not yet. Listen. First thing tomorrow, you and I will get together with a couple of the children.
NAOMI: No.
NEELIX: Naomi, what's wrong?
NAOMI: Nothing. I don't like them and I don't want to play with them.
NEELIX: That doesn't sound like you. Tell me what happened.
NAOMI: They called you names.
NEELIX: Names?
NAOMI: They said everybody from your planet was stupid. They said your ears were funny. They said just looking at you made them laugh. They said
NEELIX: I, I, I get the idea. Children can be a little cruel sometimes, but there's no need to take it personally. Besides, my ears are kind of funny.
NAOMI: I don't want to play with them.
NEELIX: No. And you don't have to.
NAOMI: Okay.
NEELIX: Come on.
(Naomi gets into bed.)
NEELIX: Goodnight. I'll tell you a story tomorrow, I promise.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]

TORRES: I'm not happy with these fluctuations. We may be trying to reactivate too many ships at once.
MORIN: I suggest we focus on the assault fighters. Qual tel k'pok.
TORRES: Thanks. When did you learn Klingon?
MORIN: Just a few phrases. I was studying your database. The Klingons are a noble race.
TORRES: They have their moments.
MORIN: Today is a good day to die.
TORRES: Pardon?
MORIN: Kahless, your greatest warrior. That was his battle cry.
TORRES: You seem to have taken an interest in Klingon history.
MORIN: There are many parallels between our cultures. The Vaadwaur have also learned to embrace death without fear. As children, we're taught to fall asleep each night imagining a different way to die.
TORRES: I prefer curling up with a good book.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Computer, access my personal database.
COMPUTER: Access established.
NEELIX: Go into the Talaxian linguistic files, Old Tongue dialect. Find and define the word Vaadwaur.
COMPUTER: Vaadwaur. Archaic adjective. Primary meaning, Foolish. Additional meanings, Weak-minded, reckless, blind.
NEELIX: What's the first known usage?
COMPUTER: First written example appears in Eldaxon's Collected Folklore, second edition. Year of publication, 5012, new calendar.
NEELIX: Computer, name the specific folktales that use the word vaadwaur.
COMPUTER: The Demon with the Golden Voice. The Tale of the Deadly Stranger. The Tale of the Boy who Lost his Head. The Tale of the Bloody Hand.
NEELIX: Not exactly Mother Goose. Computer, transfer the text of those stories to my quarters.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.

[Astrometrics lab]

GEDRIN: That star cluster in grid fourteen twenty one? Nearly half the planets are inhabitable.
SEVEN: Unfortunately they are already occupied. By the Borg.
GEDRIN: The Borg? In my century they'd only assimilated a handful of systems. It looks like they've spread through the quadrant like a plague. No offence.
SEVEN: None taken.
GEDRIN: We had a colony near the twin star in grid three one five.
SEVEN: That is part of the Devore Imperium now.
GEDRIN: And who are they?
SEVEN: An authoritarian regime. They claim eleven systems across three sectors.
GEDRIN: I don't suppose they'd be willing to negotiate for a continent or two.
SEVEN: The Devore are intolerant of outsiders.
GEDRIN: It doesn't matter. We have nothing to negotiate with. Our technology is nine hundred years out of date.
SEVEN: Your pessimism is irrelevant. We will find a home for you.
GEDRIN: I hope you're right.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: Sixteen Turei vessels are now in orbit. Long range sensors indicate five more on the way.
JANEWAY: I can understand that they want the odds in their favour, but isn't that overkill?
GAUL: They may have detected us. If they know their history, they'll come prepared.
JANEWAY: Nine hundred years is a long time to hold a grudge.
GAUL: The Turei would like nothing more than to find the rest of our subspace corridors. We can't allow that to happen.
TUVOK: Then I suggest we use the element of surprise. At oh six hundred, Voyager will leave the surface and engage the Turei ships in orbit. As we draw their fire, the more powerful Vaadwaur vessels will attack from multiple vectors. The rest of the Vaadwaur will break orbit from the opposite side of the planet and proceed to the subspace corridors. We'll rendezvous with them afterwards.
GAUL: What if Voyager is disabled? We'll be defenceless. If we armed my ships with your photon torpedoes
JANEWAY: I can't authorise that.
GAUL: Why?
JANEWAY: Starfleet protocols are very strict about the transfer of weapons.
GAUL: I'm not used to putting my life in someone else's hands.
JANEWAY: There are a lot of things you're going to have to get used to. We've faced enemies worse than the Turei. I'm confident we can handle them.
GAUL: I need those weapons.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. The answer's no.
GAUL: If you want access to our corridors.
JANEWAY: We'll continue home through open space if we have to.
GAUL: All right, our lives are in your hands.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]

(The leading Vaadwaur hold a secret meeting.)
GEDRIN: We found a planet in a nebula near the junction of corridors three nine and eight seven five. We'd be isolated and relatively safe.
GAUL: Relatively?
GEDRIN: I'm afraid the planet is somewhat harsh. There are no large bodies of water and the vegetation is sparse.
GAUL: This is absurd.
CREWMAN: Ensign, we need a power coupling over here, on the double.
(The Vaadwaur move away.)
GAUL: Our plan was to reoccupy one of our former colonies, gain allies, rebuild our forces, take back what was ours.
GEDRIN: Our former colonies are destroyed or occupied by species that are far more advanced than we are.
MORIN: Then we'll find a way to take them back.
GEDRIN: With what, a battalion of obsolete ships and outdated weapons?
GAUL: No, with Voyager. I've been studying their technology, the control systems, propulsion, weaponry. We could learn to operate the vessel ourselves.
GEDRIN: What are you saying?
GAUL: After they engage the Turei, they'll expect us to assist them. Instead, we'll attack. We'll put as many soldiers as we can onto Voyager and take it into the corridors.
GEDRIN: This is a mistake. If we fail, we'll lose everything.
GAUL: If you like, I can return you to your stasis pod. Inform the others.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: This is an M class planet in orbit of a type G star. We've located a subcontinent with edible vegetation and an underground water supply. Unfortunately, the region is subject to windstorms.
GEDRIN: Not exactly paradise.
SEVEN: You will adapt.
GEDRIN: Practical and to the point, just like my wife. She had a knack for cutting to the truth.
SEVEN: She must have been an efficient individual.
GEDRIN: To say the least. You would have enjoyed her company. You are not at all like the Borg I knew.
SEVEN: As a drone, I helped assimilate many civilisations. Now I have the opportunity to help reconstruct one. I find the experience gratifying.
GEDRIN: So do I. I'm curious. Has your crew ever considered finding a planet of their own? A place to settle down?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is committed to getting Voyager back to Earth.
GEDRIN: That could take decades, and there are many dangers ahead.
SEVEN: We will adapt.
GEDRIN: I suppose you will.
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes?
NEELIX [OC]: Could I see you in Cargo Bay two? It's important.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
GEDRIN: I'm due for a final briefing with your Mister Tuvok.
SEVEN: I'll accompany you to the bridge.

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: I'm sorry to bother you, but I've been doing some research on our new allies and I have found something very interesting. In dozens of the ancient folktales of my people, there's a common theme. They describe a phantom army that appears out of thin air, destroys entire colonies, and vanishes in the blink of an eye. Sound familiar?
SEVEN: The subspace corridors.
NEELIX: Exactly. Gedrin claims they've been using them as trade routes but I'm starting to wonder.
SEVEN: Your source material is folktales, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: But many fables have a basis in reality. You've got the collective knowledge of thousands of species. You could cross-reference my findings. It'll only take a few minutes.

[Ready room]

(Janeway sips her coffee and the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
GEDRIN: You wanted to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. I need a little history lesson.
GEDRIN: Can't it wait until after we've reached the corridors?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not. I've just had a conversation with Mister Neelix and Seven of Nine. They've been poring through various databases and ha've come up with some surprising findings.
GEDRIN: Surprising?
JANEWAY: You told me the Vaadwaur were a culture of merchants and scientists who expanded their knowledge by using subspace corridors to travel to other worlds. You were the envy of hundreds of species, some of whom eventually wanted the corridors for themselves.
GEDRIN: Your point?
JANEWAY: Let me give you another version of events. The Vaadwaur were an aggressive culture who expanded their territory by using the corridors to attack other worlds, until some of those worlds banded together to defend themselves and put an end to the Vaadwaur threat once and for all. Would you care to set the record straight?
GEDRIN: That was nine hundred years ago.
JANEWAY: If we're going to be fighting side by side, I have to trust you. I need to be certain you don't have any ulterior motives.
GEDRIN: Our only motive is survival.
JANEWAY: If I were to take you at your word, the ancient Talaxians might call me vaadwaur. Foolish. That's what they came to call anyone who allowed themselves to be deceived by an enemy. There are hundreds of other references just like it.
GEDRIN: Both versions of our history are true. We did use the corridors to explore and, on occasion, expand our territory. But Captain, we have gone from a population of six billion to six hundred. Our weapons are archaic. Do you really think that we are prepared to declare war on the Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: Not yet, but right now it's Voyager I'm worried about. The Turei are going to be firing everything they've got at my ship. You might try to take advantage of that.
GEDRIN: What are you going to do, put us all back into stasis?
JANEWAY: We said we'd try to help you make a new start, and I want to keep that promise. But I can't ignore history, Mister Gedrin.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Make yourself comfortable, Mister Gedrin. Chakotay, I don't know whether to believe him or not. What I wouldn't give for a Betazoid about now.
CHAKOTAY: If Mister Neelix is right, we should be ready for anything. Their technology may be outdated, but it can still do a lot of damage.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Maintain a full security alert and have Tuvok keep a weapons lock on their primary reactor.
CHAKOTAY: Are we still proceeding at oh six hundred hours?
JANEWAY: Yes, but with a few modifications. What's Mister Gaul's location?
KIM: He's in the central chamber.
JANEWAY: Hail him.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: Captain, we've reactivated seventy three assault vessels. Our pilots are standing by.
JANEWAY: I need to inform you about a change of plan. I want you to deactivate the particle cannons on all but ten of your assault vessels. Then we'll proceed on schedule.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Only ten of your ships are going to engage the Turei. The others will head directly for the subspace corridors. I see no reason for those to be armed.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: Something could go wrong. Why leave them defenceless?
JANEWAY: Voyager will defend them.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: What prompted this change?
JANEWAY: You haven't been completely honest about your past, and that makes me a little uncertain about the present.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: Gedrin.
GEDRIN: I suggest you listen to her.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: Request denied, Captain.
JANEWAY: It's not a request. You can call it an ultimatum if you like.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: Unacceptable.
JANEWAY: I'm going to leave this planet in one hour, with or without you.
GAUL [on viewscreen]: We did not spend nine hundred years in stasis to take orders from you.

[Vaadwaur cave - central chamber]

GAUL: Contact the battalion. Tell them to prepare for the attack.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I don't know about the rest of you but I'm ready to get moving. What's our status?
PARIS: Impulse engines are online.
TUVOK: Shields at maximum. Weapons standing by.
JANEWAY: Tom, prepare to initiate the ascent sequence in
(The ground shakes.)
CHAKOTAY: Report!
KIM: Massive energy readings coming from the central chamber.
TUVOK: It's the Vaadwaur. They're launching the first wave of ships. Seventeen vessels have broken through the surface. They're at an altitude of two thousand metres and charging weapons.  
PARIS: Ma'am, they're not ascending into orbit. They're heading straight for Voyager.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Engaging thrusters. Initiating ascent sequence.
TUVOK: Vaadwaur ships approaching off our starboard bow.
JANEWAY: Target phasers, full spread.
PARIS: We're airborne.
CHAKOTAY: What altitude do we need on this planet, Tom, before we can go to warp?
PARIS: We'll have to clear the thermosphere. Two hundred and eighty kilometres at least.
TUVOK: Shields at ninety two percent.
JANEWAY: Phasers.
TUVOK: We've disabled four of their ships.
CHAKOTAY: They've launched another thirty nine vessels.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
PARIS: It's no use. They're closing on all sides.
KIM: Direct hit to the port thrusters.
PARIS: We're losing altitude.
JANEWAY: Reroute emergency power. We need to get into orbit.
TUVOK: Targeting sensors offline. Switching to manual.
JANEWAY: Harry, can you open a secure channel to the Turei ships in orbit?
KIM: Yes, ma'am, but that would give away our position. They could lock on with plasma charges.
JANEWAY: I think it's time we reacquaint a couple of old friends. Hail them.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]

MORIN: Voyager's shields are weakening but they're gaining altitude again. They're approaching the thermosphere.
GAUL: Launch another squadron.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We've got nine more fighters on our tail.
TUVOK: Aft shields down to twenty percent.
KIM: Captain, the Turei are responding.
JANEWAY: Put them through.
TUREI [on viewscreen]: What do you want?
JANEWAY: I've got a proposition for you.  
TUREI [on viewscreen]: No more talk. Prepare to be bordered.
JANEWAY: Tell me, have you been picking up weapons fire?
TUREI [on viewscreen]: We have detected some unusual energy signatures, yes.
JANEWAY: That's because we're under attack by the Vaadwaur.
TUREI [on viewscreen]: Impossible. They were destroyed centuries ago.
GEDRIN: Some of us have survived.
JANEWAY: They've got over two hundred ships. They said something about wanting their subspace corridors back. I suggest we join forces and try to neutralise the threat here and now. What's more important to you? Deleting the records of a Federation ship that means you no harm, or defending yourselves against hundreds of Vaadwaur fighters who are determined to invade your underspace? I suggest you pick your enemy.
TUREI: Our sensors can't penetrate the atmosphere. How can we fight an enemy we can't see?
CHAKOTAY: We have access to one of their surveillance satellites. We could use it to transmit their vital coordinates to you.
TUREI [on viewscreen]: If this is a deception
KIM: I'm having trouble establishing a link with the satellite. Our sensor array took heavy damage.
GEDRIN: I could access it from the underground control chamber. Transport me there. Not all of my people are stuck in the past, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, go with him.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]

MORIN: We've impacted their hull. There are breaches in progress on two decks.
GAUL: They'll have to reroute power from their shields to seal them. They'll have no choice but to put down. Have our ground forces ready.
(Tuvok stuns a Vaadwaur in the control chamber, and Gedrin works a console.)

[Bridge]

KIM: We've lost impulse engines and navigation.
PARIS: Thrusters are failing. We're losing altitude.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, status. Tuvok?
KIM: I've lost the signal.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Initiate emergency landing procedures, and arm yourselves. If the Vaadwaur board this ship, we'll fight them hand to hand if we have to.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]

MORIN: Once we've secured Voyager, execute the crew.
GAUL: Wait. We have hundreds of bio-pods still intact. Put them into stasis. In a few hundred years, maybe someone will be kind enough to revive them.
(Debris falls from the ceiling.)
GAUL: What is that?
MORIN: It's a plasma charge. It came from orbit. It's the Turei. They've isolated our location.
GAUL: How?
MORIN: One of the surveillances satellite has been activated.
GAUL: Shut it down.

[Vaadwaur caves - control chamber]

GEDRIN: They're blocking my commands. I'm rotating the carrier frequencies.
TUVOK: The chamber is destabilising. We must evacuate.
GEDRIN: Not yet. If we're going to succeed, I need to transmit the signatures of our fighters to the Turei. You go.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Six Vaadwaur ships were just destroyed by the Turei. The others are breaking off their attack.
JANEWAY: Impulse engines?
PARIS: Still offline.
JANEWAY: How about emergency power?
KIM: Barely enough for life support, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, the radiogenic particles in the atmosphere. Could we use them as a power source?
KIM: We'd have to modify the warp core's conversion matrix. It could take hours.
JANEWAY: What if we drew the particles directly into our plasma manifold?
PARIS: That would give us one hell of a boost.
KIM: It could also blow out every power relay on the ship.
JANEWAY: Damned if we do, damned if we don't. Open the forward nacelle ports and reverse the pressure gradient. Take in six hundred kilograms.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]

(What is left of the ruined city is collapsing under the bombardment.)
VAADWAUR: The chamber's collapsing, sir.
GAUL: We'll take as many ships as we can. Try to reach the subspace corridor.
(Gedrin is crushed by falling rocks.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Particle concentration at three thousand parts per million.
JANEWAY: Release the manifold.
PARIS: Rerouting plasma to the power conduits. We have impulse.
JANEWAY: Take us up.
KIM: Thirteen power relays just blew out on deck six.
JANEWAY: Steady.
PARIS: We're crossing the thermosphere.  
JANEWAY: Any sign of pursuit?
CHAKOTAY: None. Looks like the Vaadwaur have their hands full.
JANEWAY: Altitude?
PARIS: Two hundred and sixty kilometres, two hundred and seventy. We've cleared the thermosphere.
JANEWAY: Go to warp, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

Captain's log, stardate 53167.9. After two days, there's been no sign of the Vaadwaur or the Turei. However, Seven of Nine has made an unsettling discovery.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: How many ships?
SEVEN: Astrometrics scans detected fifty three ion signatures entering the corridors. All Vaadwaur.
JANEWAY: The underground chambers?
SEVEN: They were destroyed by the Turei bombardment. Captain, I believe I made an error in judgment.
JANEWAY: Oh?
SEVEN: By awakening Gedrin, I initiated a chain of events that nearly led to our destruction. I wanted to help revive a civilisation, not start a war.
JANEWAY: You thought you were acting out of compassion. I might have done the same thing. But that doesn't make it right, Seven. The repercussions of this could be catastrophic.
SEVEN: Their technology is nine centuries out of date. Their plans for conquest are irrelevant.
JANEWAY: They're a resourceful species, determined. They'll adapt. I doubt we've seen the last of them.


S6 E8
One Small Step
Stardate: 53292.7
Original Airdate: 17 November 1999

October 19, 2032. Mars.
[Ares IV Command module]

KELLY: Ares Four to Kumagawa. How was the sunrise from down there?
(Kumagawa is a woman, Kelly is a negroid man. He is watching a monitor showing a couple in spacesuits with a rover down on the surface.)
KUMAGAWA [OC]: Beautiful. There was a little green mixed in today. It was really quite spectacular.
KELLY: Sorry I missed it.
KUMAGAWA [OC]: Next time, Lieutenant.
KELLY: Any luck drilling through that lava plain?
KUMAGAWA [OC]: Roger that. We broke through the iron oxide barrier and we're down to eight metres.
(Another man joins the conversation.)
NOVAKOVICH [OC]: We should have some samples by the end of the day if all goes well.
KELLY: On to more important matters. Received an uplink from Houston. The Yankees won game five of the World Series.
KUMAGAWA: You owe me twenty bucks.
KELLY: It's not over yet. There's still game six. We won't be the only ones making history today. Bokai just broke DiMaggio's record.
NOVAKOVICH [OC]: I don't believe it.
KELLY: If you ask me, Houston's been manipulating the stats.
KUMAGAWA [OC]: They do have a few too many Kings fans at mission control.
KELLY: Well, how else do you explain Bokai beating out the Yankee Clipper?
KUMAGAWA [OC]: Commander? We lost you for a second there.
KELLY: The ride got a little bumpy. Stand by. Picking up some turbulence.
NOVAKOVICH [OC]: At your altitude?
KELLY: Checking LIDAR. What the hell?
KUMAGAWA [OC]: John, what's going on?
KELLY: There's an object closing on my position, azimuth one twenty one point six. Whatever it is, it's huge. It's over a thousand metres across. 
NOVAKOVICH [OC]: How could something that big appear out of nowhere?
KELLY: I don't know, but I'm getting out of its way. Firing thrusters.
KUMAGAWA [OC]: It's probably just a solar flare.
KELLY: Let's hope so.
(The object gets bigger.)
KELLY: It's no solar flare.

Stardate 53292.7.

[Chakotay's quarters]

(Chakotay is sitting reading a book when his doorbell chimes.)
CHAKOTAY: Come in. Come in!
(Chimes again and again. He looks out into the corridor. There is no one there.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the bridge.
CREWMAN [OC]: This is transporter room two.
CHAKOTAY: I'm trying to reach the bridge.
CREWMAN [OC]: Your comm. signal was routed here, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Can you patch me through?
NEELIX [OC]: Pardon me. Where? Patch you through where?
(Various voices overlap.)
CHAKOTAY: Neelix?
NEELIX [OC]: Commander?
CREW [OC]: Check on the field generators.
WOMAN [OC]: Control seven, return to base at once.
JANEWAY [OC]: Computer, locate Neelix.
MAN [OC]: I can't get through to Engineering.
(It becomes incoherent babble. Chakotay goes to his door but they don't open. He steps back, and they do. After a couple of attemps, he picks his moment and jumps through before they shut again.)

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: I see you're making some changes to the computer core.
SEVEN: I have enhanced the command sequencers with Borg algorithms.
CHAKOTAY: Well, your enhancements are wreaking havoc with our secondary systems.
SEVEN: Insignificant malfunctions. I will correct them.
CHAKOTAY: I don't recall authorising any modifications.
SEVEN: The computer core is inefficient. It needed to be improved.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your initiative, but that's not up to you.
SEVEN: I've explained the value of these enhancements on several occasions, but Lieutenant Torres chose to ignore me. I thought a demonstration would be more persuasive.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I doubt this one's going to change her mind.
SEVEN: Clearly Voyager is not yet ready for assimilation. A joke. The doctor suggested that I defuse tense situations with humour.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea. Now how about getting these systems back up again so I can get back to my book.
SEVEN: We are experiencing a ship-wide power drain. This is unrelated to my modifications. 
KIM [OC]: Senior officers to the bridge.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: It's two in the morning, Ensign. This better be more than a little turbulence.
KIM: You won't be disappointed. We've got level nine gravimetric distortions closing on our position.
TUVOK: They're emanating from subspace.
JANEWAY: On screen. Shields.
(The alien object from the teaser appears.)
PARIS: It's heading right toward us.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: Say good morning to thirty million terajoules of subspace energy.
PARIS: This thing is following us. I can't outrun it at impulse.
JANEWAY: Go to warp.
PARIS: It's disrupting our warp field.
KIM: If it gets any closer the gravimetric stresses are going to rip the plating off our hull.
SEVEN: Captain, I recognise this phenomenon. It's Borg designation is spatial anomaly five two one. It's attracted to objects that emit electromagnetic energy. We have to cut power and reverse our shield polarity.
JANEWAY: Do it. (The object glides past Voyager.)
PARIS: That was close.
JANEWAY: I recognise this anomaly too. It's called a graviton ellipse. According to the Federation Database it travels through subspace, emerging occasionally without warning. Ellipses have only been observed a handful of times.
CHAKOTAY: Ares Four.
TUVOK: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: One of the early Mars missions. The Command module and its pilot were engulfed by a similar phenomenon back in 2032.
PARIS: I remember reading about that. Two astronauts were stranded on the surface for weeks before a rescue ship arrived.
CHAKOTAY: No one's gotten this close to a graviton ellipse and lived to tell about it. This could be a remarkable opportunity.
JANEWAY: Go to yellow alert. Keep our power output at minimum levels. Match it's course and speed but maintain a safe distance.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I suggest we launch a probe. See if we can find out what makes this thing tick.
JANEWAY: Make it fast. There's no telling when our visitor's going to burrow back into subspace.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I'm receiving telemetry from the probe. It appears to have entered a stable core within the anomaly. The gravimetric forces are negligible.
TUVOK: The eye of the storm.
SEVEN: An apt metaphor.
TUVOK: Computer, run a multispectral analysis of the anomaly's core.
COMPUTER: Analysis in progress.
SEVEN: The Borg developed shields to get through the gravimetric currents. They intended to dissipate the anomaly from within. Perhaps we should continue their efforts.
TUVOK: It would be short-sighted to destroy it. We should study the phenomenon.
SEVEN: I didn't realise you shared this crew's penchant for exploration.
TUVOK: I am a Starfleet officer.
SEVEN: When the risks outweigh the potential gain, exploration is illogical.
TUVOK: We can't predict what we might find here, Seven. One must allow for the unexpected discovery.
COMPUTER: Core analysis complete.
SEVEN: There are more that two point eight billion compounds in the core.
TUVOK: Fascinating.
SEVEN: The computer has isolated several synthetic compounds native to sector zero zero one.
TUVOK: Titanium and polymer composites. These materials date back to the twenty first century. They were used in the construction of Earth's early spacecraft.
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay mentioned a space capsule that was consumed by a graviton ellipse.
TUVOK: These alloys are consistent with the hull of that capsule. An unexpected discovery indeed.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: She was forty six metres, ninety two metric tons, powered by a third generation ion drive, and equipped with a transpectral imager.
CHAKOTAY: Ares Four was piloted by Lieutenant John Kelly. His ground team, astronauts Rose Kumagawa and Andrei Novakovich, were close to completing their survey mission when Kelly reported an object closing on his position. Then he and the command module disappeared off NASA's LIDAR scopes.
PARIS: And into the history books. That incident almost derailed the Mars programme.
TUVOK: Mankind's first encounter with a spatial anomaly.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, you said the Borg were working on a way to get inside a graviton ellipse.
SEVEN: Shield enhancements.
PARIS: Well, maybe we could apply the same enhancements to the Flyer.
SEVEN: Captain, do you intend to try to find the command module?
JANEWAY: Or what's left of it.
TUVOK: By my calculations, we have less than sixteen hours before the anomaly goes back into subspace.
JANEWAY: Then we have to work quickly. Harry, B'Elanna, help Seven modify the Flyer's shields. Tom, review the database from the Ares Four mission. It might tell us something about this anomaly we've missed. We're going to need a mission leader.
CHAKOTAY: I volunteer.
JANEWAY: I thought you might. Let's do it.
(Everyone gets up and leaves, except Seven.)
JANEWAY: Something on your mind, Seven?
SEVEN: The anomaly is as dangerous and unpredictable now as it was three hundred years ago.
JANEWAY: But the Delta Flyer's a little more advanced than the Ares Four was. We'll be taking every precaution.
SEVEN: That may not be enough.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern but, this is my call.
SEVEN: Searching for the command module seems more sentimental than scientific.
JANEWAY: I can't argue with that. If scientific knowledge was all we were after, then the Federation would have built a fleet of probes, not starships. Exploration is about seeing things with your own eyes. In this case, we're exploring the past.
SEVEN: How will retrieving this artefact enhance your appreciation of history?
JANEWAY: By making us part of it. In the same way that excavating the obelisks of ancient Vulcan, or finding the shroud of Kahless made those explorers a part of their history. Here's the crux of it. As a Borg, you didn't study the past, you ingested it. You've never really developed an appreciation for humanity's history. Maybe this is an opportunity to do some exploring of your own.
SEVEN: Are you ordering me to join this mission?
JANEWAY: Let's just say I'm encouraging you to volunteer.

[Astrometrics lab]

KELLY [on screen]: It's no solar flare. Wow!
KUMAGAWA [OC]: John, can you describe it?
KELLY [on screen]: It's at least a thousand metres wide. Bright.
NOVAKOVICH [OC]: Your transmission's breaking up.
KELLY [on screen]: It's generating an electromagnetic radiation, interfering with primary systems. I can't get away from it. Activating the transpectral imager. I'll record as much data as I can. It's right on top of me. I'll transmit as much as I can.
PARIS: That's all she wrote.
CHAKOTAY: NASA received Kelly's last telemetry at oh nine twenty two hours, October 19th, 2032.
PARIS: I thought I was the Mars buff. You seem to know more about the Ares Four than I do.
CHAKOTAY: The Mars missions paved the way for the exploration of space. Kelly was one of my childhood heroes.
PARIS: Mine too.
CHAKOTAY: That's dedication. The man's life is about to end, but he won't stop taking readings.
PARIS: Makes you wonder if those old-timers were made of sterner stuff than we are.
CHAKOTAY: You think we have it easy?
PARIS: You kidding? Warp drive, shields, transporters. We're travelling in the lap of luxury.
CHAKOTAY: Kelly and Kumagawa, Armstrong and Glenn, they were the real pioneers.
SEVEN: Am I interrupting?
PARIS: We were just admiring someone. Fellow explorer.
SEVEN: Hero worship. The glorification of an individual's accomplishment.
CHAKOTAY: I guess you didn't have many role models growing up.
SEVEN: In the Collective, personal accomplishments are irrelevant. The shield modifications to the Flyer are complete. We're ready for launch.
CHAKOTAY: We?
SEVEN: You'll need someone familiar with Borg technology to monitor the shields. I'm volunteering.
PARIS: You don't sound too happy about it.
SEVEN: I'm not, but this mission can benefit from my expertise.
CHAKOTAY: In that case, welcome aboard.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I'm preparing an inoculant to counter the effects of gravimetric radiation. Of course, if you were a hologram, you'd simply adjust your mobile emitter. That's what I did on Arakis Prime, one of my first away missions.
SEVEN: I don't recall that.
EMH: This was before you came aboard. Such an enchanting planet. Crystalline glaciers, magnesium vapour atmosphere. I had to stop my metallurgical scans just to admire the sheer beauty of it. To smell the roses, to coin a phrase.
SEVEN: An inefficient use of your time.
EMH: Perhaps. We're all finished here, except for one thing. Would you record some images when you're inside the ellipse, for those of us not lucky enough to make the trip?
(He hands her his holo-imager.)
SEVEN: You envy my participation in this mission?
EMH: There isn't a crewman aboard who doesn't.
SEVEN: Why?
EMH: I can only tell you how I felt that morning when I materialised on Arakis Prime. I left my footprints in the magnesite dust and thought, one small step for a hologram, one giant leap for mankind.
SEVEN: To coin a phrase.
EMH: Well, I know the sentiment isn't exactly original, but the fact is, I was exhilarated.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Seven of Nine. Report to Shuttlebay two.
EMH: Good luck.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: We're approaching the perimeter in five, four, three, two, one.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We're within two thousand kilometres. Gravimetric interference is increasing.
TORRES: It's nothing compared to what they're going through. They're really getting knocked around in there.
KIM: Their shields have weakened but they're still holding.
JANEWAY: Harry, keep your finger on that tractor beam in case we have to pull them out.
TORRES: They're approaching the anomaly's core. We've lost sensor contact.
JANEWAY: Harry.
KIM: The comm. link is still active.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: The gravimetric shear is increasing.
SEVEN: I'm reading diminished turbulence directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Full thrusters, Tom. Punch us through. Chakotay to Voyager. We're in.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: I wish you could see this, Captain, it's incredible.
JANEWAY: We're all ears.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: It's very calm. No gravimetric distortions. The EM activity is creating a natural luminescence. Tom called it mood lighting.
PARIS [OC]: Hey B'Elanna, it's the perfect romantic getaway.
TORRES: I'll take your word for it.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've detected asteroid fragments, pieces of vessels, matter from every quadrant of the galaxy. Next time I lose something I'll know where to look. Instead of a graviton ellipse we should call it the kitchen sink anomaly. The chemical interactions have even created a primitive atmosphere.
PARIS [OC]: Nothing you'd want to breathe, of course.
JANEWAY: What do you make of it, Seven?
SEVEN [OC]: Well, I suppose it's intriguing. Some of the matter appears to be extra-dimensional in origin.
KIM: Sounds like this anomaly's gotten around.
JANEWAY: Any sign of the Ares command module?
PARIS [OC]: We're picking up traces of the hull, but our sensor readings are being refracted by all the debris in here.
(Whumph.)
TUVOK: That was a gravimetric surge caused by the anomaly changing course by point zero zero six degrees.
JANEWAY: We just had a big jolt out here.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We didn't feel a thing.
JANEWAY: By our estimate you have five hours thirty six minutes before the anomaly returns to subspace.

[Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY [OC]: You'd better get a move on.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
SEVEN: I'm having difficulty isolating the debris from the command module.
PARIS: I'll lay in a search pattern. It may take a couple of hours to cover an area this large.
CHAKOTAY: Seven and I can use the time to take some samples, get a better idea of where this anomaly's been.
SEVEN: We should focus on achieving our objective and returning to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here just to find a module. We've got an opportunity to
SEVEN: Explore. I am familiar with our mission.
CHAKOTAY: In that case, let's get started.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

SEVEN: The fossilised microbes in this ore appear to have had metallic membranes.
CHAKOTAY: We've speculated about the possibility of metallic lifeforms, but we've never discovered one.
SEVEN: You're excited by this discovery?
CHAKOTAY: This piece of rock is billions of years older than Earth, from a time when the galaxy was still forming. Here.
SEVEN: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Take it. You're holding a piece of history. Maybe even the beginnings of life itself.
SEVEN: Unlikely.
CHAKOTAY: It's more likely than you think. This anomaly is as old as anything we've ever encountered. I could spend a lifetime studying the things it's collected.
SEVEN: And leave Voyager without a First Officer?
CHAKOTAY: They'd manage. Palaeontology was always my first love. It's the reason I joined Starfleet.
SEVEN: Why didn't you pursue it?
CHAKOTAY: My sense of responsibility got in the way. First the Maquis, then Voyager. What I wanted to be always seemed to take a back seat. Do you remember what you wanted to be before you were assimilated?
SEVEN: I was assimilated when I was a child.
CHAKOTAY: I knew I wanted to be a palaeontologist when I was six.
SEVEN: A ballerina.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it's not too late.
SEVEN: It was a juvenile fantasy.
CHAKOTAY: Those are the ones that stick with you.
PARIS [OC]: Heads up, folks. I think we're getting close.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: I've isolated the module, bearing thirty nine mark one five. There.
SEVEN: It appears to be intact.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading hull breaches and corrosion, but all things considered it's pretty well preserved.
PARIS: We weren't expecting to find a fragment this big. Can't just stow it in the aft section.
CHAKOTAY: We'll use a tractor beam to tow it back to Voyager.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, the anomaly just made another course change, point zero zero three degrees.
JANEWAY: That's the third one in an hour. Something has to be attracting it.
TORRES: There's nothing on the sensors.
JANEWAY: I think it enjoys being unpredictable.
KIM: We know it has a taste for electromagnetic energy.
JANEWAY: So what could generate an EM field large enough to get it's attention, but still not show up on sensors?
KIM: An energy burst from a pulsar, a neutrino cloud.
TORRES: Dark matter.
JANEWAY: Realign the sensor array to scan for EM fluctuations.
TORRES: I've got a spatial disturbance three million kilometres away. It's a dark matter asteroid.
JANEWAY: Bingo.
KIM: The anomaly's heading right for it.
JANEWAY: Time to impact?
TUVOK: Four minutes. Captain, we can't predict how the impact will affect the anomaly.
TORRES: But it's a safe bet it won't be a gentle nudge.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Delta Flyer, we've

[Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY [OC]: got a problem. The anomaly is on a collision course with a dark matter asteroid.
CHAKOTAY: We've located the Mars orbiter. We're adapting a tractor beam.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Give us a minute.
JANEWAY: You don't have it. Get out of there.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: Captain?

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Now.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: Is the tractor beam ready?
PARIS: Just about, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Lock onto the module and take us out.
SEVEN: We don't have time.
CHAKOTAY: I gave you an order.
SEVEN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're not leaving without that module. Tom!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, both the anomaly and the asteroid are accelerating.
JANEWAY: They're attracting each other like a pair of magnets.
TORRES: At this rate it'll impact in fifty six seconds.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, you've got less than a minute.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: The module is slowing us down.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain tractor lock. How long until we clear the anomaly?
SEVEN: At our current speed, forty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: We can do it.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Thirty seconds to impact. They're still not clear.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, status.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: We're on our way.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Twenty seconds.
(The asteroid his the anomoly, sending ripples through it. One of them disconnects the Flyer from the Ares IV and sends it tumbling backwards. Chakotay gets an electric shock from his console.)
TUVOK: Gravimetric distortions are increasing.
JANEWAY: The Flyer?
KIM: I've lost the signal.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

SEVEN: How badly is he damaged?
PARIS: He's got a severe concussion and internal injuries. We need to get him back to Voyager.
SEVEN: That may not be possible. Communications, shields and propulsion are still offline.
PARIS: He's stable for now. I'll give you a hand.
SEVEN: We can repair the shields, but the engines are unsalvageable. 
PARIS: It can't be that bad.
SEVEN: It's worse. The ellipse showing signs of returning to subspace. We have less than two hours.
(Later -)
PARIS: He's regaining consciousness. Easy, easy. Lie still.
CHAKOTAY: It feels like I just went ten rounds with an Andorian.
PARIS: More like twenty. You were hit with a plasma discharge. The gravimetric surge from the asteroid caught us at the edge of the anomaly and tossed us back inside.
CHAKOTAY: The command module?
PARIS: It's adrift, three hundred metres off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Then we can still salvage it.
PARIS: Not so fast. We can't get engines or shields back online, not to mention a tractor beam. We'll be lucky to get out of this in one piece.
CHAKOTAY: I can help.
PARIS: You're in worse shape than this ship. You want to help? Lie in the bed, doctor's orders.
SEVEN: Another gravimetric surge.
PARIS: I'll see if I can reinforce the structural integrity field.
(Paris goes to the cockpit.)
CHAKOTAY: You might try drawing power from auxiliary life support.
SEVEN: That system was damaged as well.
CHAKOTAY: What about the secondary relays?
SEVEN: They're offline.
CHAKOTAY: That doesn't leave us many choices. Try rerouting the phaser couplings.
SEVEN: We explored that option while you were unconscious.
CHAKOTAY: Then maybe you can bring me up to date.
SEVEN: There's no time. I suggest you recuperate. We have the situation under control.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look that way from here. I'm still in command of this mission. I want to know what's going on.
SEVEN: Very well. We were ordered by the Captain to leave this anomaly, but you chose to disobey that command. As a result of your obsession with the module, we are now trapped along with it. In all probability we won't survive without
CHAKOTAY: Point taken. Now why don't you continue, without the attitude.
SEVEN: An inventory of the damaged systems. Read it for yourself.
CHAKOTAY: I made a mistake. I put the mission at risk.
SEVEN: You put our lives at risk.
CHAKOTAY: Well, if we don't make it out, someone's bound to come looking for us in a few hundred years. Defusing a tense situation with humour, remember?
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to Delta Flyer.
SEVEN: They're using a probe as a transmission relay.
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to Chakotay, please respond. We can't detect you.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we can hear you.
SEVEN: I'm matching their frequency. Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer. Respond.
JANEWAY [OC]: Are you all right? What's your status?
CHAKOTAY: We've sustained heavy damage, Captain, but we're alive. It's good to hear your voice.

[Briefing room]

KIM: We could install the same shielding on a class two shuttle and take it in.
PARIS [OC]: It took us hours to make the modifications

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: To the Flyer. We've only got eighty two minutes before this thing disappears into subspace.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: It may be possible to modify a tractor beam to cut through the gravimetric interference.
KIM: You'll never be able to get it all the way through to the core.
JANEWAY: Start working on it anyway.
TORRES: You said all the energy conduits are fused?
SEVEN [OC]: Correct.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

SEVEN: We can't get power to any of the primary systems.
PARIS: If the replicators were working we could whip up a new plasma manifold

[Briefing room]

PARIS [OC]: And be on our way.
TORRES: What if I could get you an old manifold?
PARIS [OC]: Excuse me?
TORRES: The command module may be three centuries old, but the power distribution system isn't that different from the Flyer's. Right here. This control panel in the main cockpit. It was called an ion distributor. With a few tweaks it could be modified to channel warp plasma.
SEVEN [OC]: Even if it were possible, we have to obtain the object

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

SEVEN: Before we can adapt it.
JANEWAY [OC]: Do you have enough

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Power to beam one of you to the module?

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: Yes, ma'am. I'll go.
JANEWAY: Not so fast, Tom. If another gravimetric surge hits, we'll need you at the helm. Seven.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

SEVEN: Are you encouraging me to volunteer again, Captain?

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: You read my mind.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: Come on, just a little closer. That's it for thrusters

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

PARIS [OC]: But I got us within transporter range. Ready?
(Seven is in a spacesuit.)
SEVEN: Stand by.
CHAKOTAY: Ironic. You're doing what I've always dreamt of. Remember, when you set foot in that module, you'll be stepping into history.
SEVEN: History is irrelevant.
CHAKOTAY: Irrelevant? Do me a favour. When you're over there, download whatever you can from their database. And also take a minute to look around, so you can tell us what it was like.
SEVEN: There may not be time, but I'll try.
CHAKOTAY: Good luck.

[Ares Four Command Module]

(No artificial gravity here. Seven wears magnetic boots.)
PARIS [OC]: What's it like in there?
SEVEN: Dark. The ambient temperature is minus two hundred sixty degrees. There appear to be fractures in the aft bulkheads.
PARIS [OC]: Is the cockpit intact?
SEVEN: Yes.
(So is Kelly's body.)
SEVEN: I've brought the main computer online.
KELLY [OC]: I've lost contact with the team on the surface, and I can't get a fix on my position.
PARIS [OC]: What was that?
SEVEN: There's an active data file.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

SEVEN [OC]: It appears to contain log entries.
CHAKOTAY: Can you play them for us?

[Ares Four Command Module]

SEVEN: I believe so.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

CHAKOTAY: Consider it my last request.

[Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY [on monitor]: And I can't get a fix on my position. But I'm alive and the CM seems to be intact. I'm inside this

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

KELLY [OC]: Whatever it is.
PARIS: Could you hear that, Chakotay?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

CHAKOTAY: It's amazing. Everyone assumed he was killed instantly.

[Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY [on monitor]: What I've gotten myself into. It's very calm, like I'm in the eye of a hurricane. It's a little spooky but the way I figure it.

[2032 - Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY: If there's a way in, there's got to be a way out. I'm gonna fire up the spectral imager before I initiate another engine burn, collect as much data as I can. Jeannie, I may not be bringing you back the Mars rock, but I promise you, I'm going to do everything I can to get home.
(Later.)
KELLY: Ares Four, mission record, October 23rd. I'm starting to feel like Jonah. How long was he in the belly of that whale? Three days? I got him beat by a day or two already. The EM interference is disrupting communications and LIDAR, and I can't see the stars. There's no way I can get a fix on my position. If this thing's moving as fast as it was when it pulled me in, I could be a long way from Mars by now. The imager's been working overtime cataloguing all the matter in here, but a lot of it defies analysis. I think we're going to need to make room on the periodic table. Where the hell am I? Power levels have dropped another fifteen percent since my last systems check. 
(The module appears to hit something. A piece of another spaceship drifts past the porthole.)
KELLY: I think I just saw another spacecraft. Either that, or all this dehydrated food has gone to my head. I've got it. The hull's made of some kind of alloy. I can't make heads or tails of it. I shouldn't have been so dismissive.

[Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY [on monitor]: I remember giving Kumagawa a hard time when she claimed she saw a UFO over the Gulf. I told her it was a meteor or another piece of MIR. I guess I owe you an apology, Rose. Ares Four, mission record, October 25th. It's been a nice place to visit

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

KELLY [OC]: But I'm ready to come home. I've prepped the ion drive, channeled all the thruster reserves into the main tank.

[2032 - Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY: I have enough fuel for one last engine burn. Wish me luck.
(He puts a photograph of himself and his wife on the control panel.)
KELLY: Ignition sequence. Five, four, three, two. I'm losing pitch control. Gyros aren't responding. Power failure. I've got to abort. I'm not going to make it.

[Ares Four Command Module]

(Seven looks at the photograph.)
KELLY [on monitor]: All systems go. Watch me, Dad, I'm flying. Boom. Bad landing. Call the MedEvac team. Ha.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS : Paris to Seven. Status?

[Ares Four Command Module]

SEVEN: I've located the device, but it's fused to the hull. Stand by.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: Make it quick. We've got less than fifteen minutes.

[Ares Four Command Module]

SEVEN: Understood.

[2032. Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY: All systems go. Watch me Dad, I'm flying. Boom. Bad landing. Call the MedEvac team. Ha. John Kelly's first flight, not exactly A-OK. Remember that, Dad? I jumped off the roof with a parachute made of blankets. I guess I didn't calculate the aerodynamics. Of course, I was only six. I guess

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

KELLY [OC]: This is John Kelly's last flight. This time, I can't blame it on pilot error. This time, no regrets.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

KELLY [OC]: Oh, what I've seen proves we were right to come out here.

[Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY [on monitor]: We're not alone, I know that now. The module's losing power. I'm taking life support offline.

[2032 - Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY: Rerouting whatever's left to the imager. Keep it running as long as possible. Mission Control, Dad, whoever finds this, do me a favour. Take all the data I've collected. Put it to good use. I hope you don't look at this as a failure. I don't.

[Ares Four Command Module]

KELLY [on monitor]: Actually, I do have one regret. I never found out who won the World Series. I'm tired, and I can't
(Entry 435 ends. Seven pulls the distributor out of its assembly, then gets out her tricorder and sets it recording.)
PARIS [OC]: Paris to Seven. how's it going over there?
SEVEN: I have the distributor. I'm downloading Lieutenant Kelly's database.
PARIS [OC]: Hurry. we're running out of time.
(The download is complete. She puts her comm. badge on a cloth sleeve with an Ares IV misson badge sewn onto it.)
SEVEN: Lock onto my bio-signature and my comm. badge.
PARIS [OC]: Seven?
SEVEN: Energise.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Delta Flyer, report.
PARIS [OC]: We're trying to integrate the distributor. Stand by, Captain. 
JANEWAY: How long do they have?
TUVOK: Four minutes.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: Try bypassing the power couplings.
SEVEN: No effect.
PARIS: Resequence the ion modulators, see if that does it.
SEVEN: Power conversion in process.
PARIS: We have propulsion, shields.
SEVEN: The plasma flow is still fluctuating.
PARIS: Stay on top of it. Paris to Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
PARIS: Open the shuttlebay doors. We're coming home.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

PARIS: Laying in an escape trajectory.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The ellipse is returning to subspace.
JANEWAY: The Flyer?
KIM: They're approaching the perimeter. Two thousand metres, eighteen hundred.
TORRES: The anomaly's submerging.
(Things on the Flyer are going bang.)
JANEWAY: Are we in tractor range?
TUVOK: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Take us closer.
(Torres is at the helm.)
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: They're still out of reach. Another three hundred metres.
JANEWAY: Closer.
TORRES: We'll be pulled right in with them.
JANEWAY: Just a few more metres.
TORRES: We're too close.
TUVOK: I've got a lock.
JANEWAY: Reverse thrusters, full impulse.
(The Delta Flyer is pulled out of the anomaly as it goes into subspace.)

Captain's log, stardate 53301.2. The away team collected over sixty teraquads of data on the anomaly. Before we begin to analyse them, we've decided to pay our respects to an old colleague.

[Bridge]

(A torpedo casing is covered with a UFP flag. The officers are in dress uniform.)
JANEWAY: Space. Literally it means nothing, a vacuum between stars and planets, but by the same token it means everything. It's what connects all our worlds, Vulcan, Kronos, Talax, Earth. Centuries ago, mankind sent its first wave of explorers into that void. Astronauts like Mister Kelly. They paved the way for the first colonies, the first starships, for those of us who've made space our home. We commend the spirit and the bravery of Lieutenant John Mark Kelly as we commit his body to space. He will not be forgotten.
SEVEN: Captain. I did not know this individual. Had I encountered him while I was a Borg I would have found his technology unworthy of assimilation. But we are more alike than one might think. In a sense, his desire to explore was not unlike a quest for perfection.

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay is on a  biobed listening, along with the EMH.)
SEVEN [OC]: His contribution helped secure humanity's future, and in some ways, my own.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: (sotto) The Yankees, in six games.
(She looks over at Janeway, who nods.)
TUVOK: All hands, attention. Honour guard.
(The guard step forward at the bosun's whistle. Moments later, the torpedo casing is fired into space.)


S6 E9
The Voyager Conspiracy
Stardate: 53329
Original Airdate: 24 November, 1999

[Cargo Bay two]
(Little Naomi is standing in Seven's regeneration chamber when Seven enters.)
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman. State your purpose here.
NAOMI: I was waiting for you. Kadis-kot, remember? Our weekly game?
SEVEN: Reschedule for tomorrow. I'm working now.
NAOMI: Redecorating isn't work.
SEVEN: Aesthetics are irrelevant. I'm modifying the alcove to function as a cortical processing sub-unit.
NAOMI: That was my next guess.
SEVEN: Then I won't need to explain its purpose.
NAOMI: Okay, you win. What do you do with a cortical processing er
SEVEN: Sub-unit. On Borg vessels, there's one in each Unimatrix. It downloads newly assimilated data to the drones.
NAOMI: But Voyager isn't a Borg vessel, and you're not a drone anymore.
SEVEN: Voyager collects a great deal of information. Sensor scans, navigational projections, engineering updates, away team reports, scientific analyses.
NAOMI: The results of our Kadis-kot tournament?
SEVEN: That, too. The crew must read and study this information. An inefficient procedure. These data nodes are downloading the information into the alcove.
NAOMI: Which is going to download it into you.
SEVEN: Precisely. In a matter of hours, I will assimilate several months worth of data.
NAOMI: Can I try it sometime?
SEVEN: Your physiology is different from mine.
NAOMI: Guess I'll stick to reading my lessons and listening to Neelix tell stories.
SEVEN: I will see you tomorrow.
NAOMI: Can I watch? Okay, tomorrow.
(Naomi leaves. Seven steps into her augmented regeneration chamber.)

[Janeway's quarters]

(A dinner evening with Chakotay.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Plate is hot.
JANEWAY: Now you tell me. You go for authenticity and what do you get? Second-degree burns.
(Janeway uses a napkin to collect it from the replicator.)
JANEWAY: ( I've been slaving over that replicator programme for hours. What was this bizarre rumour I heard about half the crew on deck five getting pregnant?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, that. The Doctor was running generational projections on the Sickbay computer. Tom Paris happened to glance at the monitor and jumped to conclusions. Wasn't long before Neelix was asking me if he could turn Cargo Bay one into a nursery.
JANEWAY: Word travels fast on this ship, hmm?
CHAKOTAY: Warp ten. Oh, by the way, I meant to tell you. There's a Class K nebula twenty five light years off starboard. We should take a look.
JANEWAY: A major detour for a minor nebula.
CHAKOTAY: We are explorers, remember?
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
(The replicator beeps.)
JANEWAY: Main course. A recipe I've never tried. But we are explorers, remember.

[Cargo Bay two]

COMPUTER: Regeneration cycle complete.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Lieutenant Torres. Lieutenant Torres, respond.
TORRES [OC]: Good morning, Seven. This better be important.
SEVEN: I must speak with you at once.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I'm picking up some interesting graviton fluctuations about ten light years away.
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
JANEWAY: Not at this distance. Tom, alter course. I want to take a closer look.
PARIS: Chakotay had his heart set on that nebula we're headed for.
JANEWAY: He'll have to wait.
(Torres and Seven enter.)
TORRES: Captain, I need permission to shut down the sensor grid. Seven thinks a couple of insects are disrupting the power flow.
SEVEN: A mating pair of photonic fleas, to be more accurate, and possibly their offspring.
JANEWAY: And how did you arrive at this theory?
SEVEN: Last night, I downloaded six months of ship status reports into my new cortical sub-unit while I was regenerating.
PARIS: Learn while you sleep. I tried that once, It gave me a headache.
JANEWAY: Go on.
SEVEN: Eight weeks ago, an away team encountered a Kartelan freighter carrying supplies from sector four nine two, a territory that included a former Talaxian colony. Mister Neelix used the opportunity to acquire twelve kilograms of amber spice, a delicacy among his people.
TORRES: What does that have to do with the sensor grid?
SEVEN: On the same day, Ensign Kim was repairing a replicator in the Mess hall.
KIM: I remember that. Neelix told me to stick around and try something he was cooking.
SEVEN: No doubt made with the amber spice, which contained the larvae of the photonic fleas.
TORRES: How could you possibly know that?
SEVEN: Because I also downloaded data regarding their life cycles. The larvae flew out of the spice jar in search of their primary source of nourishment, plasma particles. The conduits within the nearby sensor grid contain an unlimited supply of these particles. Ensign Kim had unwittingly given the creatures access by exposing the grid. The now mature creatures periodically tap into the conduit for nourishment. When they do, the sensor emitters momentarily lose their resolution.
TUVOK: A logical, though highly speculative, analysis.

[Jefferies tube]

(Torres opens the relevant panel. There are tiny bright insects flying around in there.)
JANEWAY: Let's find a more suitable home for them.

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm picking up graviton fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. On screen.
(Artificial structures.)
PARIS: Anybody want to hazard a guess?
TUVOK: They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen. (A thin faced saurian with a long bony protruberance all the way up the middle of his face from his nose.)
TASH [on viewscreen]: I recommend maximum shielding. There are a few technical issues I haven't worked out yet.
KIM: There's a massive graviton surge coming from that thing.
TUVOK: Shields to full.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY: Your apparatus appears to be destabilising.
TASH [on viewscreen]: If I don't find a way to repair this power core they'll be able to see the explosion all the way to, er, where did you say you were from?
JANEWAY: I didn't, but we're from a planet called Earth.
TASH [on viewscreen]: All the way to Earth.
CHAKOTAY: Can we ask you what it's supposed to do?
TASH [on viewscreen]: Catapult a vessel across space, in the time it takes to say catapult a vessel across space. It'll make warp drive look like a wooden sledge.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can help you with that power core.
TASH [on viewscreen]: Hmm?

[Briefing room]

TASH: The core sends a graviton surge through the projectors which locks onto a ship and sends it hurtling into null space, to emerge a few hours later hundreds, if not thousands, of light years away.
CHAKOTAY: I'm curious why you built this catapult.
TASH: Simple. I've been looking for a way to get home.
KIM: We know the feeling.
TASH: I'd been exploring an unstable wormhole. Before I knew it, I was here and my home planet was there. I was facing a journey of at least ten years. Instead, I decided to build a catapult.
TORRES: Have you tested it yet?
TASH: Two weeks ago I sent a probe nearly six hundred light years. But it destabilised the core. I've been trying to fix it ever since.
CHAKOTAY: We can send an Engineering team over to help you.
TASH: No, no, it's too dangerous. I wouldn't send my own crew in there.
KIM: Then we could find a way to adjust the core reaction from here.
TORRES: A few well-timed graviton pulses from our deflector dish might do it.
TASH: That's generous, but I have nothing to give in return.
JANEWAY: We're not asking for anything in return.
TASH: You could use the catapult after I've made my jump. It should still be functional. A thousand light years won't exactly get you back to Earth.
KIM: But it would cut a few years off our trip.
JANEWAY: If you're successful, and if I'm satisfied a jump would be safe for Voyager, then we'll take you up on that offer. Thank you. Let's get started.
(Seven has another night downloading lots of information into her brain, including the catapult schematics.)

[Janeway's quarters]

JANEWAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: Perhaps not. The alien, Mister Tash, is trying to deceive us. His catapult is the same type of technology that was used to trap Voyager in the Delta Quadrant five years ago.
JANEWAY: I scanned the catapult myself. Sensors didn't pick up anything unusual. You spent the night in your new alcove.
SEVEN: Processing the same information and cross-referencing it with Voyager's database. When the catapult destabilised yesterday, Astrometric sensors recorded a momentary burst of epsilon radiation.
JANEWAY: Unusual, but not unheard of.
SEVEN: Epsilon radiation is one the by-products of a tetryon reactor. According to your own entries in the database, your only encounter with that kind of technology occurred five years ago in the Alpha Quadrant. A coherent tetryon beam locked onto Voyager, and you were hit by a massive displacement wave, which pulled you across seventy thousand light years in a matter of minutes. The source of that tetryon beam was the Caretaker's array. Mister Tash claims that his catapult will be able to do something very similar.
JANEWAY: He didn't want us to send over a repair team.
SEVEN: Out of concern for our safety. It's obvious he was trying to hide his tetryon reactor.
JANEWAY: The first time we met a Caretaker, we were pulled halfway across the galaxy. The second time we were almost killed. I'm not eager for a third round.

[Engineering]

TASH: Is this any way to treat a colleague?
EMH: Not so much as a molecule of Caretaker DNA.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor. There's a tetryon reactor powering your catapult. You didn't want us to find it, did you? Unless you answer my questions, I'll resume course and you can ask somebody else for help.
TASH: I acquired the tetryon reactor at great cost. This territory is full of species who would do anything for such advanced technology, including steal it. I apologise for the deception, but you do understand.
JANEWAY: We made an agreement to cooperate. I see no reason not to continue.
TASH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: (to Torres) Keep me informed on your progress.
(She walks away with Seven.)
JANEWAY: That reactor had to come from somewhere. I can't just ignore the possibility of a Caretaker nearby. Keep scanning. See what you can find.
SEVEN: There is another possibility. The reactor may have come from the same array that brought Voyager to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: That's a long shot, Seven.
SEVEN: Maybe not. Again, according to your own reports you believed the only way to keep the array from falling into the wrong hands was to destroy it. It's possible the destruction was incomplete.
JANEWAY: And one of the reactors survived? We scanned for debris. There was nothing left but some fused pieces of metal alloy.
SEVEN: I wish to re-examine the sensor records from that event.
JANEWAY: In case we were mistaken?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Go right ahead.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Computer, describe the debris remaining after the array was destroyed.
COMPUTER: Particulate dust and metallic fragments composed of an unknown alloy. Vapour composed of hydrogen, helium, mercury and argon.
SEVEN: Was there anything left of the tetryon reactor?
COMPUTER: Negative.
SEVEN: Specify the yield of the tricobalt device.
COMPUTER: Twenty thousand teracochranes.
SEVEN: Who programmed the device?
COMPUTER: Commander Tuvok.
SEVEN: Display the detonation. Advance the image by point zero one seconds. Again.
SEVEN: Isolate grid three seven and magnify.
(There is a blue beam aiming at the array.)
SEVEN:  Is that a tractor beam?
COMPUTER: Insufficient sensor data.
SEVEN: Identify its source.
COMPUTER: Insufficient sensor data.
SEVEN: Identify the isolated section of the array.
COMPUTER: Secondary power core.
SEVEN: Which contained a tetryon reactor.
COMPUTER: Affirmative.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Commander, I've been reviewing the data on the destruction of the Caretaker's array. Unfortunately, the sensor records are incomplete.
PARIS: I don't doubt it. We were being attacked by the Kazon. Half the ship's systems were down.
SEVEN: A single Kazon vessel.
PARIS: Armed to the teeth.
SEVEN: Commander, you fired the tricobalt charge that destroyed the array.
TUVOK: Correct.
SEVEN: Under the Captain's orders. Did you also programme the charge?
TUVOK: Yes.
SEVEN: Under the Captain's orders as well?
TUVOK: Not directly. I determined the yield.
SEVEN: Twenty thousand teracochranes.
TUVOK: That's correct.
SEVEN: According to sensor estimates of the array's hull integrity, a charge of half that yield would have been sufficient.
TUVOK: The Captain wanted nothing left for the Kazon to use. I calculated a yield certain to produce that result.
SEVEN: Something may have escaped the blast. One of the tetryon reactors.
PARIS: But we scanned for debris.
SEVEN: The charge you detonated tore an opening in subspace.
PARIS: And that's where the reactor went?
SEVEN: Yes.
PARIS: How?
SEVEN: It was pushed there by a tractor beam.
TUVOK: Do you have evidence of a tractor beam?
SEVEN: Perhaps.
TUVOK: Speculation is not evidence. There was no tractor beam, because there was no ship in the vicinity to generate one, unless you can prove otherwise.
SEVEN: Thank you, Commander.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Looking for a midnight snack?
SEVEN: I require information. I'm attempting to determine whether the catapult technology was derived from the Caretaker's array.
NEELIX: So I heard. A fascinating theory. It's got my mind spinning.
SEVEN: How long were you in the vicinity of the array before Voyager arrived?
NEELIX: About a year. Kes was on a nearby planet and, er, we were getting very close.
SEVEN: Did you ever encounter the Caretaker directly?
NEELIX: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. In my opinion, any being powerful enough to grab ships from the other side of the galaxy should be avoided.
SEVEN: According to Voyager's database, he claimed he was searching for a genetically compatible mate. Did you believe that explanation?
NEELIX: I had no reason to doubt it, though it did seem a bit excessive. I mean, all those ships.
SEVEN: What happened to them?
NEELIX: Well, after he sampled the crew's DNA he sent them back where they came from, I suppose. You know, Kes always thought something more was going on, but she had quite an imagination.
SEVEN: Were there any other ships in the area after Voyager arrived?
NEELIX: Only the Kazon.
SEVEN: But the Caretaker could have pulled in another vessel. A cloaked ship, perhaps.
NEELIX: Seven, what are you getting at?
SEVEN: A third ship, hidden from both Voyager and the Kazon.
NEELIX: What was it doing there?
SEVEN: Preventing the tetryon reactor from being destroyed.
NEELIX: Kes was right. Something was going on.
SEVEN: Voyager's sensor logs were damaged in the Kazon attack. I can't be certain.
NEELIX: Maybe I can help. The sensor records on my ship weren't damaged. I can give them to you.
(Seven has another download session with Neelix's files.)

[Bridge]

KIM: The tetryon reaction is stable. Graviton field is set for a one hundred light year jump.
CHAKOTAY: The catapult's locking onto him.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TASH [on viewscreen]: I'll contact you the moment I re-enter normal space. Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: My pleasure.
KIM: Catapult is at full power.
TASH [on viewscreen]: Goodbye to you all.
TUVOK: Final launch sequence has been initiated. (The two sides of the catapult activate with beams that pull at Tash's ship. Then it vanishes.)
KIM: He's gone.
JANEWAY: How long before we can expect to hear from him?
TUVOK: If his vessel survived, one or two hours.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
SEVEN [OC]: I require your assistance in the Astrometrics lab.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Computer, seal the doors. Deactivate all sensors within this room.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: What's this about?
SEVEN: I believe Voyager's presence in the Delta Quadrant is no accident. You and the crew have been stranded here intentionally.
CHAKOTAY: By whom?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway. The Captain and Tuvok were involved in a Federation conspiracy. They're in collusion with the Caretaker and possibly the Cardassians.
CHAKOTAY: I see. And the point of this conspiracy?
SEVEN: I believe they're attempting to establish a military presence in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: That's quite a theory. Perhaps you haven't heard of the Jankata Accord?
SEVEN: No species shall enter another quadrant for the purpose of territorial expansion.
CHAKOTAY: The Federation signed it, the Cardassians signed it, and Captain Janeway would be the last person to violate it.
SEVEN: Improbable as it may sound, I've found compelling evidence to support my theory.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of evidence?
SEVEN: I've analysed over thirty million teraquads of data regarding Voyager's activities over the past five years. It's quite clear that we've been the victim of an elaborate deception.
CHAKOTAY: I don't have the benefit of a cortical processor. Why don't you give me the abridged version?
SEVEN: In the months before Voyager's arrival, Neelix recorded the appearance of fifty two vessels, including this one.
CHAKOTAY: A Cardassian warship.
SEVEN: A remarkable coincidence. Only days before Voyager's arrival, the Cardassians were already in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: The Caretaker was trying to find a mate, remember? He was pulling ships from all over the galaxy.
SEVEN: I'm familiar with the Caretaker's actions. In each instance, he would examine the crews' DNA, and when he failed to find a genetic match he would release the vessel. But in this instance, Neelix's sensors indicated the ship vanished. Obviously, it was returned to the Alpha Quadrant. Why?
CHAKOTAY: You seem to have all the answers.
SEVEN: I believe the Cardassians were sent back to deliver strategic information regarding the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Conjecture.
SEVEN: Extrapolation.
CHAKOTAY: I can believe the Cardassians might be involved in this, but not Starfleet.
SEVEN: There are precedents for unauthorised missions of this type, Commander. According to the Federation database, the Maquis were victims of several of them.
CHAKOTAY: All right, you've got my attention. You said that Tuvok and Captain Janeway were involved. Tell me how.
SEVEN: At the same time the Cardassians were meeting with the Caretaker, your Maquis vessel was infiltrated with a Starfleet agent.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.
SEVEN: Your navigator. He guided your ship to prearranged coordinates in the Badlands, where the Caretaker locked onto you. Once you were pulled into the Delta Quadrant, Tuvok could have secretly transmitted final instructions to the Caretaker. A short time later, Captain Janeway guided Voyager to the same coordinates and was also pulled into the Delta Quadrant. All of these events took place within a matter of days. I find that suspicious.
CHAKOTAY: I'll admit the timing seems a little convenient, but that doesn't mean there was a master plan.
SEVEN: Why did the Captain destroy the array?
CHAKOTAY: So the Kazon couldn't use it to attack the Ocampa.
SEVEN: That's what she told the crew, but I believe she intended to remain in the Delta Quadrant all along. If the Array had remained intact, you and all the others would have insisted on using it to return home.
CHAKOTAY: She was keeping it from the Kazon.
SEVEN: The Captain ordered Commander Tuvok to destroy the array. He fired two tricobalt devices. Are those weapons normally carried on Federation Starships?
CHAKOTAY: No.
SEVEN: Yet they were part of Voyager's arsenal. Why?
CHAKOTAY: I can't explain that.
SEVEN: I can. Neither phasers nor torpedoes are capable of creating a tear in subspace. A tricobalt device is. As Tuvok detonated the device, a cloaked ship locked on to one of the array's tetryon reactors and pushed it through the tear into subspace, protecting it from the blast and hiding it from Voyager's sensors. But the Captain and Tuvok knew exactly where it was going. Once Voyager left the area, the reactor was retrieved and began a similar journey, carried by a series of vessels until it was finally delivered to Mister Tash.
CHAKOTAY: Who used it to build the catapult.
SEVEN: He was waiting here for Voyager, and for the final phase of the mission.
CHAKOTAY: Which is what, exactly?
SEVEN: I don't think Captain Janeway is planning to use the catapult to get Voyager closer to home. I think she's going to use it to bring in more vessels from the Alpha Quadrant. If I'm correct, this region of space will soon be occupied by a Federation-Cardassian invasion force.
CHAKOTAY: You've uncovered some interesting facts. But your interpretation is far-fetched. These are random incidents. Granted, some of them are hard to explain, but there's no conspiracy here.
SEVEN: Stardate 51008, Captain Janeway allows Kes to leave Voyager. Neelix told me that Kes had suspicions about the Caretaker. Was the captain trying to silence her? Stardate 51462, the Doctor's programme is transmitted to a Starfleet vessel on the outskirts of the Alpha Quadrant. An attempt by the Captain to contact Earth or a secret communiqué informing Starfleet of her progress? Stardate 50984, Janeway forges an alliance with the Borg. Stardate 51762, a cease-fire with the Hirogen. Stardate 52861, a non-aggression pact with the Terkellians. She called each incident diplomacy. I believe she was trying to establish a tactical infrastructure in the Delta Quadrant. Over the past five years, Captain Janeway has altered course two hundred sixty three times in the name of exploration. In reality, she was mapping the region and collecting strategic data regarding
CHAKOTAY: I get the point.
SEVEN: You still doubt my suspicions, but can you be certain I'm wrong?
CHAKOTAY: Absolutely certain? No.
SEVEN: Until you are, you mustn't allow Captain Janeway to retain control of the catapult.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm picking up a transmission, heavily distorted.
KIM: He made it.
JANEWAY: Can you clear it up?
TASH [on viewscreen]: Success, Captain. Five thousand light years.
JANEWAY: Are you all right?
TASH [on viewscreen]: A few systems overloaded, nothing serious. I had to readjust my shields during mid-flight. Almost lost my outer hull. I'm sending you the modifications. My catapult is yours, Captain. Good luck.
JANEWAY: Get that data down to B'Elanna. Tell her to enhance our shields.
CHAKOTAY: So we're going ahead with the jump?
JANEWAY: I want to run a few more tests, launch some probes, but if it all checks out I see no reason not to.
KIM: I've received the telemetry.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take it to Engineering.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: I want you to add a point zero three variance to these shield modifications.
TORRES: That'll disrupt the emitters.
CHAKOTAY: And you'll need another six hours to get them back online. I know.
TORRES: Have you run this by the Captain?
CHAKOTAY: No, and I'm not going to. Not yet.
(Chakotay brings Torres up to speed on Seven's conspiracy theory.)
TORRES: She's pulling your leg. It's got to be some kind of Borg practical joke.
CHAKOTAY: She wasn't joking.
TORRES: A secret mission? Starfleet in league with the Caretaker? It's ridiculous.
CHAKOTAY: Ridiculous? Seven has some compelling evidence.
TORRES: Well then, let's go to the Captain, get a straight answer.
CHAKOTAY: Good morning, Kathryn. All systems are operational. The crew's in good health. And by the way, is it true you've been lying to us for five years? I'm not prepared to make that accusation, but I can't ignore what I've heard either.
TORRES: So what do you suggest?
CHAKOTAY: I want you to delay those shield modifications. That'll give me time to check Seven's database, take a look at the evidence myself.
KIM: The Captain asked me to work with you on the shields.
CHAKOTAY: That won't be necessary, Ensign.
KIM: Oh, I don't mind. You know how eager she is to make that jump.
TORRES: Harry, we're fine here.
CHAKOTAY: Too many cooks, Harry. You know how it is. We'll let you know when we're done.

[Cargo Bay two]

COMPUTER: Download complete.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
SEVEN: I need to speak with you in the Astrometrics lab.
JANEWAY [OC]: I'm on my way.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Computer, seal the door and deactivate internal sensors to this room.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: I believe Chakotay and other members of your crew are involved in a conspiracy to resurrect the Maquis rebellion.
JANEWAY: Did Chakotay put you up to this?
SEVEN: Voyager and the Federation itself are in grave danger.
JANEWAY: Go on.
SEVEN: I've concluded that Chakotay intends to use the catapult to launch attacks against Cardassian and Federation starships.
JANEWAY: Chakotay gave up his allegiance to the Maquis a long time ago. What you're saying makes no sense.
SEVEN: Improbable as it may sound, I found compelling evidence to support my theory. In the months before Voyager's arrival, Neelix recorded the sudden appearance of fifty two vessels, including this one.
JANEWAY: A Cardassian warship.
SEVEN: I've analysed the hull geometry and warp signature. It was one of the same ships that were pursuing Chakotay and his crew in the region known as the Badlands. It was pulled into the Delta Quadrant by the Caretaker during that engagement. According to Federation records, that same Cardassian warship was found destroyed in the Badlands. The investigation revealed that it was attacked by the Maquis. I believe that for some unknown reason the Caretaker had sent this ship back to the Alpha Quadrant, and that Commander Chakotay attacked the vessel before it could reach its destination. He downloaded its computer core and discovered the presence of the Caretaker's array. He realised that the array could be used by the Maquis as a weapon, to launch surprise attacks against Cardassian and Starfleet vessels.
JANEWAY: Well, I commend you for your imagination, but Tuvok was a spy on Chakotay's ship. If your theory were true, he would have known about it.
SEVEN: He does. Tuvok has been collaborating with the Maquis resistance all along.
JANEWAY: That's not possible, Seven.
SEVEN: With Tuvok's assistance Chakotay plotted a course toward the next likely appearance of the Caretaker's displacement wave, offering his vessel as bait. His ploy almost succeeded, but the Caretaker was more powerful than he anticipated. His crew was taken captive. A few days later, Voyager arrived and facilitated their escape. Chakotay seized that opportunity to make one last attempt to gain control of the array, but then you gave the order to destroy it.
JANEWAY: Circumstantial evidence, not proof.
SEVEN: Who carried out your order to destroy the array?
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
SEVEN: Using what type of technology?
JANEWAY: Tricobalt devices.
SEVEN: He set the yield to twenty thousand teracochranes. It was enough to tear an opening in subspace. A cloaked ship locked on to one of the reactors, protecting it from the blast and hiding it from Voyager's sensors. The reactor was retrieved and carried by a series of vessels until it was delivered to Mister Tash, who was well compensated by Chakotay to build the catapult. He was waiting here for Voyager so Chakotay could complete the mission he was forced to abandon five years ago.
JANEWAY: I'd be willing to consider this theory of yours if I didn't know Chakotay as well as I do. There is no one on this ship I trust more. What you've done here is build what we call a house of cards.
SEVEN: Stardate 48658. Commander Seska is revealed to be a Cardassian spy. She defects to the Kazon and impregnates herself with Chakotay's DNA. Was he unaware of the procedure, as he claims, or were they working together, to create a new Kazon sect to capture Voyager? Stardate 49522. Chakotay recommends establishing trade relations with the Kolhari. Their technology uses tetryon power cells. A simple diplomatic overture, or was he seeking a source of energy for the catapult? Stardate 49571

[Corridor]

NAOMI: Seven.
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: Where are you going?
SEVEN: That's not your concern.
NAOMI: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Your father was Ktarian.
NAOMI: So?
SEVEN: The Ktarians were officially with the Federation, but they sympathised with the Maquis.
NAOMI: What are you talking about?
SEVEN: Who are you working for, Chakotay or the Captain?
NAOMI: Seven?
SEVEN: Tell them it's too late. Go!

[Cargo Bay two]

(Janeway enters, wearing a phaser at her waist. Chakotay is also wearing a weapon.)
CHAKOTAY: I picked up a power surge coming from the Cargo bay.
JANEWAY: I detected the same thing. You think it's the enhanced alcove.
CHAKOTAY: Could be.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look. Are phasers standard equipment on board now?
CHAKOTAY: Must be.
JANEWAY: The data buffer's been activated.
CHAKOTAY: I wanted to make sure it wasn't malfunctioning.
JANEWAY: You should be careful. Somebody might think you were trying to delete a few files.
CHAKOTAY: Why would they think that?
JANEWAY: Some of those files could contain sensitive information.
CHAKOTAY: If that's true, somebody might think you were trying to do the same thing.
JANEWAY: That catapult out there, it's a powerful piece of technology. If the Maquis ever had access to something like it, they might have been successful.
CHAKOTAY: And if we had, your mission to the Delta Quadrant never would have gotten off the drawing board.
JANEWAY: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: The mission you've been on for the last five years.
JANEWAY: My only mission is trying to get Voyager home.
CHAKOTAY: Seven showed me the sensor records. I saw the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: She showed me the same thing, but she implicated you in some kind of Maquis plot.
CHAKOTAY: Same evidence, two different theories.
JANEWAY: It all started with those damn photonic fleas. She was downloading Voyager's database.
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry.
KIM [OC]: I just picked up an unauthorised launch of the Delta Flyer. Seven's at the helm.
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course.
KIM [OC]: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the Doctor.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay here.
CHAKOTAY: Get down to Cargo Bay two. Run a diagnostic on Seven's alcove.
EMH [OC]: On my way.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we got that settled.
CHAKOTAY: Likewise.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, let's keep this one out of our logs, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Gladly.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: She's altering course, heading for the catapult.
JANEWAY: Maintain pursuit. Open a channel.
TUVOK: No response.
CHAKOTAY: Try to beam her out.
KIM: She's done something to alter her bio-signature. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Target her propulsion and weapons. Fire.
(The phaser beams miss by miles.)
TUVOK: Our targeting scanners are out of alignment.
CHAKOTAY: She must have done it before she took off.
KIM: She's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Keep trying.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH [OC]: Seven downloaded too much data into her cortical implant.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: She's trying to make sense of more information than she can process.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Understood. Beam me onto the Delta Flyer.
CHAKOTAY: I'm going with you.
JANEWAY: No. I have a better chance of getting through to her alone.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't part of your mission, is it?
JANEWAY: Is it part of yours?
CHAKOTAY: Good luck.
JANEWAY: Energise.

[Delta Flyer]

SEVEN: Captain.
(Janeway walks into a forcefield.)
SEVEN: You came here hoping to stop me. You'll fail.
JANEWAY: Turn this ship around. That's an order.
SEVEN: Your orders are irrelevant. I'm no longer under your command. You deceived me.
JANEWAY: There is no conspiracy. There is no Maquis rebellion. The Federation isn't planning to invade the Delta Quadrant.
SEVEN: I realised that, because I finally uncovered your true objective.
JANEWAY: And what's that?
SEVEN: Me. Stardate 32611, the Federation sends my parents to study the Borg Collective. They know my family will be assimilated. That was their intention. Stardate 48317, Voyager is sent to the Delta Quadrant with orders to retrieve me. When they reach Borg space, Captain Janeway negotiates an alliance with the Collective in exchange for information regarding species 8472. They agree to give her Seven of Nine. Stardate 51030, Janeway extracts the implants from my body to remove any knowledge I have of her agreement with the Borg. Stardate 53329, Captain Janeway finalises plans to use the catapult to deliver Seven of Nine to the Alpha quadrant, where Starfleet will dissect and analyse the drone to gather tactical data to fight the Borg. I won't allow you to complete your mission. If necessary I'll destroy the catapult, and myself.
JANEWAY: You're right, Seven. There is a conspiracy here. But I believe it's a conspiracy of one. I've got a theory of my own. Your modified alcove threw your synaptic patterns into chaos and your mind can't make sense of all the information, so you're generating theory after theory in an attempt to bring order to that chaos.
SEVEN: Your reasoning is flawed. My alcove is functioning perfectly.
JANEWAY: What about you? You're not a drone anymore. You can't always predict how Borg technology will affect you. You should be in Sickbay, not behind that forcefield. Let me help you.
SEVEN: No. I don't believe you.
JANEWAY: Of course you don't. Anything I say gets woven into your paranoid conspiracies. But you should believe me, Seven, because I've never lied to you, and I'm not lying to you now. You have to put your doubts aside and trust me. Stardate 51030, Seven of Nine is severed from the hive mind. The Captain tells her not to resist, that she'll learn to accept her humanity. Seven complies, and slowly begins to embrace her individuality. Does she regret that decision? Stardate 51652, the Captain encourages Seven to develop her social skills. Seven insists it's a waste of time, but after further requests she pursues it, and begins to develop her first human friendships. Did Janeway lead her astray? Stardate 52840, the Captain orders Seven to study her parents' journals. Seven claims they're irrelevant, but eventually she reads them and rediscovers part of her own past. Stardate 52841, for the first time, Seven tells the Captain thank you.
SEVEN: It was Stardate 52842, oh six hundred hours in the mess hall. We had just finished breakfast.
JANEWAY: My mistake. Stardate today, Janeway beams aboard the Delta Flyer. She reminds Seven of the bond that's grown between them. Seven lowers the forcefield and she decides to come home. All I'm asking is that you trust me again.
(Seven lowers the forcefield.)
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer to Voyager. Two to beam out.

Captain's log, supplemental. After further testing, we activated the catapult and were hurtled across thirty sectors of space. In less than an hour, we cut three years off our journey. I'm happy to say the Doctor has repaired Seven of Nine's cortical processor and she's returned to duty.

[Cargo Bay two]

NAOMI: Guess who assimilated three books and ten reports in two days?
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: That's correct. Are you taking your new alcove apart?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Why?
SEVEN: My attempt to download Voyager's database failed.
NAOMI: Maybe you can fix it.
SEVEN: The alcove functioned within expected parameters. Unfortunately, I did not. Three books and ten reports is impressive, but quantity is less relevant than quality. You must be able to interpret the data and enjoy the process. Regardless, you require activities other than assimilating books and reports. A game of Kadis-kot, for example.
NAOMI: When?
SEVEN: Go to the mess hall and set up the board. I'll join you when I'm finished.

[Janeway's quarters]

(At the end of another dinner for two.)
JANEWAY: I heard the strangest rumour today. Apparently, the Captain and First Officer almost came to blows.
CHAKOTAY: Mutiny?
JANEWAY: First Officer walked the plank. So I heard.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe a word of it.
JANEWAY: Me neither.
CHAKOTAY: Seven was malfunctioning. We don't have that excuse.
JANEWAY: You're right. We've been through too much to stop trusting each other.
CHAKOTAY: You didn't poison the coffee, did you?
JANEWAY: Not any more than I usually do.


S6 E10
Pathfinder
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 1 December 1999

[Earth - Barclay's Apartment]
(Someone is knocking on the door of a character previously seen in The Next Generation.)
BARCLAY: Just a minute. I'll, I'll be right there.
(The apartment is a mess. The knocking resumes.)
BARCLAY: I'm coming, I'm coming. Deanna.
(The USS Enterprise Ship's Counsellor is there.)
TROI: Hello, Reg.
BARCLAY: I'm so glad you could make it. It's wonderful to see you.
TROI: Would it be all right if I came inside?
BARCLAY: Yeah, of course, of course. Come in, come in. Is there something I can get you? Some er, some coffee, tea? Oh wait a minute, don't, don't tell me. Chocolate ice cream.
TROI: You know me too well. But just one scoop, I'm watching my figure.
BARCLAY: Why? You, you look lovely.
TROI: You always knew how to flatter me. Would you like me to get it?
BARCLAY: Get? Get what?
TROI: The ice cream.
BARCLAY: Right, right, the ice cream. No, no, no, no. Come in, come in. Sit down, make yourself comfortable.
TROI: It's a nice place.
BARCLAY: Thanks. One scoop of chocolate ice cream.
TROI: Did you just move in?
BARCLAY: No, no, I've been here, er, almost two years. I just haven't had a chance to unpack.
TROI: Is everything all right Reg?
BARCLAY: Of course, Why, why wouldn't it be?    
TROI: To be honest, you seem a little on edge.
BARCLAY: Do I? Oh, it's just that I'm, I'm excited to see you.
TROI: I'm excited to see you, too. I think Geordi's a little disappointed I didn't invite him to come along.
BARCLAY: Yes, well, I, I was hoping to get, get together with him too, er, before the Enterprise leaves orbit, but I just wanted to spend time with you first. That's all right, isn't it?
TROI: Of course it is. I hear you've been working on the Pathfinder project.
BARCLAY: Well, I, I was. Er, I'm not anymore.
TROI: What happened?
BARCLAY: Oh, ah, nothing, really. Just got to be a lot of, er, pressure.
(A white cat enters and starts licking at the ice cream.)
TROI: Well, hello.
BARCLAY: Neelix! He's not used to company. It's not polite to eat our guest's food. If you're hungry, just say so. Deanna, Neelix.
TROI: Neelix. That's an unusual name. Maybe we should introduce him to Data's cat, Spot. I have a feeling you didn't ask me here to reminisce. Tell me what's wrong.
BARCLAY: I've lost myself, Deanna.
TROI: Lost yourself?
BARCLAY: In Voyager. I've become obsessed with Voyager. Here you are on shore leave and what do I do? I lure you into a counselling session.
TROI: Don't worry about that. The important thing is, I'm here now and I want to help.
BARCLAY: Thank you.
TROI: Now, start at the beginning.
BARCLAY: Has it ever occurred to you that a tachyon beam directed at a class B itinerant pulsar could produce enough gravimetric energy to create an artificial singularity?
TROI: I can't say it has.
BARCLAY: It occurred to me. But my supervisors thought it was an abuse of MIDAS.
TROI: MIDAS?
BARCLAY: The Mutara Interdimensional Deep Space Transponder Array.
TROI: Reg, you're losing me.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry.
TROI: The beginning?
BARCLAY: The beginning. Right. Well, I suppose it all started in the holodeck. Doesn't it always?
TROI: Go on.
BARCLAY: Well I, I was running a few simulations.

[Starfleet Communications Research Center - Holodeck - Voyager Bridge]

BARCLAY: Computer, boost the gain on Voyager's transceiver by twenty percent.
COMPUTER: Transceiver gain is at maximum.
BARCLAY: Apply a narrowband filter to the signal processor.
COMPUTER: Filter engaged.
ADMIRAL PARIS [OC]: Voyager, come in. Come in, Voyager. Voyager, come in, this is Starfleet Command. Voyager, come in, Voyager.
BARCLAY: Good, good, good. Now lower the filter band by point three kilohertz.
HARKINS: Reg, what are you doing?
BARCLAY: Oh, ah, er, Pete. I, I, I was just, er.
HARKINS: Yes, running another simulation. I can see that. What about the transmitter diagnostics?
BARCLAY: Right. The diagnostics.
HARKINS: You have finished them, haven't you?
BARCLAY: Er, almost.
HARKINS: Almost isn't good enough. We've got Admiral Paris first thing in the morning.
BARCLAY: Admiral Paris.
HARKINS: Don't tell me you forgot.
BARCLAY: Oh, no, of, of, of course not. I, I, I just got the days mixed up.
HARKINS: Reg.
BARCLAY: Computer, end programme. Now that I think about it, it's a good thing that Admiral Paris is coming tomorrow. We can brief the Admiral on my theory.

[Pathfinder lab]

HARKINS: What theory?
BARCLAY: I've been going over the interstellar phenomena forecasts from Deep Space Nine. They are predicting er, a class B itinerant pulsar will pass within four billion kilometers of the MIDAS array in three days.
HARKINS: You think the pulsar might damage the array?
BARCLAY: No, no. The shields will hold. Actually I was thinking, we could use the pulsar to our own advantage.
HARKINS: How?
BARCLAY: Suppose, suppose we instructed the array to direct a tachyon beam at the pulsar. Theoretically, we could produce a gravimetric surge powerful enough to create an artificial wormhole. We could establish two way communication with Voyager.
HARKINS: Reg, you're dreaming again.
BARCLAY: No, no, I really think this could work. Based on my simulations that
HARKINS: Based on your last series of simulations, we wasted six months trying to develop that transwarp probe.
BARCLAY: This, this is different. This
HARKINS: Reg, I really appreciate your imagination. It's what makes you such a valuable part of this team. But I'm not about to tell the Admiral that we've found a way for him to chat with his son because of some cock-eyed theory that only exists up here. Now please, finish those diagnostics.
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
HARKINS: And, Reg, remember, while the Admiral's here, I do the talking.
BARCLAY: You do the talking. Understood.
BARCLAY [OC]: Pete was only trying to look out for me, but I was sure my plan would work. I just couldn't give it up.
(Later.)
HARKINS: Burning the midnight oil?
BARCLAY: I, I finished, er, the diagnostics, sir.
HARKINS: Yes. I know. I looked them over. Good job. Now, why don't you call it a day?
BARCLAY: I just, er, have a few more things to take care of.
HARKINS: Well, see you tomorrow, then. Oh,. Reg, why don't, why don't you drop by tonight when you're through here?
BARCLAY: Drop by?
HARKINS: Come to the house. Have some coffee. Angie's sister's in from Boston. I, er I think she might like you.
BARCLAY: I, I don't, I don't think I can er. I'm spending the evening with, er, Neelix.
HARKINS: Correct me if I'm wrong, Reg, but Neelix is your cat. Well, if you change your mind.
BARCLAY: Thanks. I'll try. 
BARCLAY [OC]: But I couldn't leave. Not until I'd strengthened my case for accessing the MIDAS array. The meeting with Admiral Paris was only fourteen hours away and I hadn't come up with anything. Poring over the data wasn't helping. I decided what I needed was, er, a little inspiration.
BARCLAY: Computer. Activate hologrid mess hall scenario Barclay eleven gamma.

[Holodeck - Voyager Mess hall]

(Starfleet are in their uniforms, the Maquis in their leather, and Paris has two pips on his collar.)
PARIS: Hey, Reg.
CHAKOTAY: Warning. The shark is circling.
TORRES: Let the games begin.
KIM: What'll it be, Reg?
BARCLAY: The usual.
KIM: Computer, one milk, warm.
BARCLAY: Oh thanks, Harry.
KIM: Just trying to get on your good side so you'll go easy on me tonight.
BARCLAY: You know what I always say. (Jimmy Cagney) If you can't stand the heat.
KIM: Get out of the warp core.
CHAKOTAY: Sit down, Lieutenant, and give us mortals a chance to get even. That's an order.
BARCLAY: If you insist, Commander, but I think it's only fair to warn you I have no intention of letting my winning streak come to an end. Now, where's er, Tuvok?
TORRES: He said it's illogical to continue losing to a clearly superior player.
BARCLAY: Oh, that's too bad. I love to watch that Vulcan squirm Now, you all know the rules. Deuces, one eyed Jacks and suicide kings are wild. Five of a kind beats a straight flush every time.
(Barclay deals the cards.)
KIM: The man is ruthless.
PARIS: He's a killer.
BARCLAY: Now, come on, guys. You know it hurts me to see you lose. After all, you are my best friends.

[Barclay's apartment]

BARCLAY [OC]: I hoped that the poker game would help calm my nerves, so that I could get a decent night's sleep before the briefing. But when I got home that night I couldn't keep my mind off Voyager. I needed to get back to the Holodeck.

[Holodeck - Voyager Sickbay]

(Barclay gets a vigourous massage from the EMH,)
BARCLAY: That feels so good.
EMH: Therapeutic massage can be an effective treatment for insomnia, Lieutenant, but we need to get to the cause of your sleeplessness if we're going to find a more permanent solution.
BARCLAY: It's just that every time I close my eyes, my mind starts to race.
EMH: Can you be more specific?
BARCLAY: Well, I worry about the project. Have I explored the problem from every angle, or is there something else I should be trying? Am I doing enough?
EMH: Hmm. Acute work related anxiety. Perhaps I should speak to the captain about reducing your schedule.
BARCLAY: Something tells me she's not going to be able to help.
EMH: You are an invaluable member of this crew, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: Thank you, Doctor. It's nice to be appreciated.

[Holodeck - Voyager Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Turning in, Reg?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
CREWMAN: Hey, Reg.
BARCLAY [OC]: For some reason, I never slept in my apartment as comfortably as I did in my holographic quarters. I suppose I felt more at home on Voyager.

[Holodeck - Voyager Mess hall]

BARCLAY: Good morning, everyone.
KIM: Morning, Reg.
PARIS: You're awfully chipper.
BARCLAY: Slept like a baby.
KIM: Then maybe you've got the energy to whip up one of your famous cheese omelettes.
PARIS: Oh, yeah. I'm starved.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, guys, I have a very important briefing at oh nine hundred. Just have time for coffee.
KIM: Er, don't forget about tonight.
BARCLAY: Remind me.
KIM: You were supposed to teach me how to play Velocity.
PARIS: No, no way. Reg and I have a hoverball game scheduled.
BARCLAY: Don't fight. Plenty of me to go around.
TORRES: Reg, I'm sorry to bother you again, but I'm still having trouble with the warp core recalibration.
BARCLAY: It's no problem. I'll stop by Engineering later, talk you through.
TORRES: Thank you. I really appreciate it.
PARIS: Velocity, hoverball, warp core recalibrations? Reg, I don't know how you do it.
BARCLAY: Let you in on a little secret. There's two of me.

[Pathfinder lab]

HARKINS: The Delta Quadrant, sector 41751, grid nine. Voyager's doctor reported this as the ship's position when his programme was briefly transferred to Starfleet two years ago. Assuming they're still on course for Earth, we've been able to extrapolate a range of likely trajectories. Estimating an average warp speed of six point two, and accounting for various astronomical obstacles, we can reasonably assume that Voyager is now in one of these three sectors.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Can we contact them?
HARKINS: As you know, we've been working with the Vulcans on the deployment of the MIDAS array. Though we're still in the testing phase, we think it won't be long before we can use this technology to send signals at hyper-subspace speeds. A message that would normally take years to reach its destination could be received by Voyager in a matter of days.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Impressive. Will they be able to respond?
HARKINS: No sir, but at least they'll know we're still looking for them. We'll send data on the hyper-subspace technology and hope they can eventually use it to return the call.
BARCLAY: Excuse me, Admiral Paris.
HARKINS: Lieutenant Barclay.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, Commander, it's just that there may be a way to establish, er, two-way communication with Voyager.
HARKINS: Now is not the time.
ADMIRAL PARIS: It's all right, Mister Harkins, let the man speak. I'm all ears, son.
BARCLAY: Well, er, you see, there's a, er, class B itinerant, er, pulsar, er, and we well, as you probably know, sir, sir, neutrino emissions, ah. Oh, what I mean to say is that with the array, we could open an artificial er, s, a sing, singularity.
ADMIRAL PARIS: A wormhole?
BARCLAY: Yes, yes, sir. We could use it as a conduit to to talk to Voyager.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I can't give you high marks for clarity, Lieutenant, but you've certainly got my attention. Is there any merit to what he's saying?
HARKINS: Mister Barclay has a tendency to get ahead of himself, sir. Unfortunately, what he's suggesting is beyond our abilities.
BARCLAY: But you haven't even
HARKINS: Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: I know that I haven't explained myself very well, but with all due respect, sir, what do we have to lose by trying? I think we're forgetting that there are a hundred and fifty people stranded in the Delta Quadrant.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I have a son on that ship, Lieutenant. I haven't forgotten that fact for a single moment.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, sir. I, I didn't, er I didn't mean to.
HARKINS: Take the rest of the day off, Reg.
BARCLAY: But
HARKINS: That was not a suggestion.
TROI [OC]: How did you deal with your feelings afterwards?

[Barclay's Apartment]

BARCLAY: What do you mean?
TROI: Well, did you talk to Commander Harkins after the meeting? Apologise?
BARCLAY: Well, no. I wanted to, er, fine tune my plan, so, I er, just went right back to work.
TROI: Be more specific. What exactly did you do?
BARCLAY: Well, I needed someone to, er bounce ideas off of. Someone to help focus my thoughts.
TROI: Sounds reasonable. I suppose you consulted with some of your Pathfinder colleagues.
BARCLAY: Well, not exactly.
TROI: You went back to the holodeck, didn't you?
BARCLAY: They're the only people that I can talk to.
TROI: They're not people.
BARCLAY: I know, but they, they help me with my work.
TROI: Poker? Massages? Sleeping in holographic quarters? Sounds more like escape than work.
BARCLAY: I can't concentrate if I'm not relaxed.
TROI: Can't you relax with your friends?
BARCLAY: Friends?
TROI: Commander Harkins invited you to his home. You went to the holodeck instead.
BARCLAY: It's not what you're thinking, Deanna. This isn't a relapse of my holo-addiction.
TROI: Okay. Tell me how the holograms helped you with your work.
BARCLAY: Well, I talked to them about my ideas. I worked out technical problems.

[Holodeck - Voyager Briefing room]

BARCLAY: I need specifics here, people.
(Janeway has the Bun of Steel on her head.)
JANEWAY: Take us through it again, Mister Barclay, one step at a time. Maybe it'll spark an idea.
BARCLAY: We've got our itinerant pulsar. We've got our Interdimensional transponder array. How do we get our wormhole?
TORRES: This one could keep us up all night.
BARCLAY: We know we can produce gravimetric energy, but, can we do it at levels high enough to create the singularity?
KIM: We're talking about a massive subspace reaction.
BARCLAY: Maybe that's the problem.
CHAKOTAY: Reg?
BARCLAY: Maybe we need to think smaller.
PARIS: You're losing me.
BARCLAY: And how much bandwidth do we really need? The average wormhole is huge, but if we compressed the datastream.
TORRES: We wouldn't need a conduit anywhere near as big.
JANEWAY: What's your idea?
BARCLAY: A micro-wormhole.
TUVOK: Impressive.
JANEWAY: You've outdone yourself this time, Reg.
BARCLAY: I'll still need, er, help with the details.
JANEWAY: Put together a team. Use whatever resources you need.

[Holodeck - Voyager Engineering]

(Barclay and Chakotay are throwing a small ball to and fro on the upper catwalk around the warp core.)
BARCLAY: A power ratio of approximately sixty terawatts should do the trick.
CHAKOTAY: You think that's enough?
BARCLAY: Should be, but then we have to compensate for gravimetric interference.
TORRES: And how do we do that?
BARCLAY: I was thinking, what if we applied a narrowband filter to the transponder signal?
CHAKOTAY: Barclay strikes again.
(Hawkins catches the ball.)
HARKINS: What's going on here?
BARCLAY: Commander.
TORRES: Who's your friend, Reg?
HARKINS: Yes, aren't you going to introduce me?
BARCLAY: Computer, delete characters.
(Torres and Chakotay vanish.)
HARKINS: I thought I told you to go home.
BARCLAY: I was, er, working.
HARKINS: You call this work? You've created holograms of the Voyager crew.
BARCLAY: Oh, it, it, it, it's not what you think. It's an interactive, er, diagnostic programme. I designed it to help me solve problems.
HARKINS: How long have you been in here?
BARCLAY: Since the briefing.
HARKINS: The briefing ended ten hours ago.
BARCLAY: I, I know that I embarrassed you in front of the Admiral, and I'm, I'm sorry. I wanted to refine my idea so that I could present you with a specific plan. And I've done that, Pete. You were right about the wormhole idea being too expansive. So I've, I've scaled it back.
HARKINS: All the extra time you've been putting in. If I checked the holo-logs, would I find you've been spending those hours in here?
BARCLAY: Well, not, not all that time.
HARKINS: How much of it?
BARCLAY: Maybe, er, twenty or thirty hours a week.
HARKINS: Don't you think that's a little excessive?
BARCLAY: Not if it helps us contact Voyager.
HARKINS: Before I brought you onto my team I reviewed your file. You've struggled with holo-addiction before. From where I stand it looks like you've had a relapse.
BARCLAY: I know it it may look that way.
HARKINS: I think you need counselling.
BARCLAY: What I need is for you to pay attention to my ideas.
HARKINS: I should have been paying more attention to your behaviour. I thought I was being a friend by giving you some leeway. I didn't realise how involved you've become with Voyager.
BARCLAY: Is it really so wrong? Do you have any idea what it must be like for them to be stranded sixty thousand light years from home? Do you have any idea how lonely that must be?
HARKINS: I'm sorry, Reg, but until you get some help, you're off the project.
BARCLAY: You, you can't do that.
HARKINS: You've given me no choice. This hologrid and the lab are officially off limits. Now go home.
BARCLAY: I won't leave. Not until you've heard what I have to say.
HARKINS: Reg! Don't make me call security.

[Starfleet Command]

(On his desk, Admiral Paris has a picture of Nick Locano from The First Duty, played by Robert Duncan McNeill.)
ADMIRAL PARIS: What is it, Nicole?
NICOLE [OC]: He's still here.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You told him I have a meeting scheduled at fifteen hundred?
NICOLE [OC]: Yes, sir. He won't go away.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Send him in.
NICOLE [OC]: Yes, sir.
(Barclay enters.)
BARCLAY: Admiral, er, thank you, thank you for seeing me.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You're frightening my secretary, Mister Barclay. You have five minutes.
BARCLAY: Five minutes. Right.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Sit down.
BARCLAY: Er, first, first I, I want to apologise for speaking out of turn yesterday. It's, it's only because I, I, I care so much about Voyager.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Yes, Commander Harkins has informed me about your attachment to the crew. I understand you've been spending time with a holographic re-creation of my son, among others. Frankly, I find that rather disturbing.
BARCLAY: Well, I understand how, how you could see it that way but, er, that does not negate the fact that I have a plan for communicating with Voyager.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Commander Harkins doesn't seem to think your plan is viable.
BARCLAY: I have refined the idea. I've simplified it. All I'm asking for is a chance to try. And if I'm right, it could mean a chance to talk to Tom.
ADMIRAL PARIS: In my opinion, Commander Harkins removed you from the project with good cause, and that's his prerogative. I won't let my personal feelings interfere with Starfleet procedure.
BARCLAY: I, I've broken protocol and I should be punished, but the crew of the Voyager shouldn't be, and neither, neither should you. I just need access to the lab for one more day. After that, if I er, if I'm wrong, I'll resign my commission.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I'll order a review of your findings. If it's concluded your ideas are valid, I'll instruct Commander Harkins to pursue it.
BARCLAY: But I'm the one who knows the
ADMIRAL PARIS: That's the best I can do, Mister Barclay. Good day.

[Barclay's Apartment]

(Night has now fallen.)
TROI: So the meeting went well?
BARCLAY: No, no, no. It didn't, not at all.
TROI: The Admiral said he'd review your findings.
BARCLAY: Don't you see? He was just trying to get rid of me, just like Harkins.
TROI: Try to relax.
BARCLAY: Now you understand why I need your help.
TROI: Yes, I do.
BARCLAY: You, you have to call the Admiral in your official capacity as a Starfleet Counsellor and tell him that I am psychologically fit to return to work.
TROI: I can't do that.
BARCLAY: Why not?
TROI: Look at yourself. You're experiencing acute anxiety, sleeplessness, paranoia. You did what you could. Now it's time to let Starfleet worry about Voyager. We need to take care of you.
BARCLAY: There is nothing wrong with me!
TROI: You said yourself you've become obsessed with Voyager.
BARCLAY: What if I have? If an obsession helps me to do my job better, it's a sacrifice I am willing to make. A little instability in exchange for contact with a stranded starship. Isn't Voyager more important than my psychological condition?
TROI: Voyager is important, but so are you.
BARCLAY: That ship, that crew, they're all I have.
TROI: Tell me why that is.
BARCLAY: Ever, ever since I, I left the Enterprise, things haven't, haven't been the same. It's as if I lost my family.
TROI: So you created a new family on the holodeck. Only they're not real.
BARCLAY: I didn't know how else, how else to cope.
TROI: Do you remember when you first came aboard the Enterprise? You had trouble fitting in, didn't you? But after a while you started to make friends. You can learn to do the same thing here on Earth.
BARCLAY: Oh, I, I don't know how.
TROI: We'll work on it together.
BARCLAY: You're scheduled to depart tomorrow.
TROI: I've decided to ask Captain Picard for a temporary leave of absence. To spend some time with an old friend.
BARCLAY: Oh, Deanna, you, you, you don't, you don't have to do that.
TROI: Try and stop me.
(Later, Barclay wakes with Neelix lying on his chest.)
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, Neelix. I have to leave. No, no, you can't talk me out of it.

[Outside Pathfinder lab]

COMPUTER: Authorisation code required.
BARCLAY: Barclay alpha one seven gamma.
COMPUTER: Access denied. That code has been de-authorised.
(Barclay opens the access panel and zaps some isochips.)
BARCLAY: Computer, re-enter authorisation code Barclay alpha one seven gamma.
COMPUTER: Access authorised.
(The door opens. He shuts the panel and goes inside the dark lab.)

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: Computer, interface with the MIDAS array. Activate the control matrix. (In deep space, the three panels of the array send a beam to the central point.)
COMPUTER: Matrix activated.
BARCLAY: Full power to the graviton emitters.
COMPUTER: Emitters powering.
BARCLAY: Scan the area surrounding the array for a class B itinerant pulsar.
COMPUTER: A pulsar has been detected at coordinates two two seven by four one mark six.
BARCLAY: Good, good! Direct a sixty terawatt tachyon beam toward the pulsar.
COMPUTER: Tachyon beam initiated.
BARCLAY: How long until levels are sufficient to produce a gravimetric surge of five million teradynes?
COMPUTER: Approximately seventeen minutes.
(The array sends a beam out into the dark.)
BARCLAY: Computer, is there a micro-wormhole present at coordinates three four three by two seven?
COMPUTER: Scanning. Affirmative.
BARCLAY: I knew it. Adjust the phase alignment to direct the wormhole's trajectory to Delta Quadrant, grid nine, sector 41751.
COMPUTER: Trajectory established.
BARCLAY: Open Starfleet Emergency Channel and transmit toward the singularity.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
BARCLAY: Starfleet Command to USS Voyager. Come in, Voyager. Voyager, do you hear me? This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay.
HARKINS: Step away from the controls.
BARCLAY: Pete. I, I've sent a message.
HARKINS: Stand down, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: All right, you win. Computer, transfer controls to hologrid programme Barclay pi three and restrict access.
HARKINS: Stop him. Stun him if you have to.

[Holodeck - Voyager Corridor]

(Barclay diverts the two security men through an opening and closing holodeck door.)
BARCLAY: Tuvok. Did you see those two men?
TUVOK: I did not.
BARCLAY: Well they look like Starfleet security, but they're not.
TUVOK: Intruders?
BARCLAY: They're after me. I need your help.
TUVOK: Tuvok to all hands. Intruder alert. Computer, locate any unauthorised personnel aboard Voyager.
COMPUTER: Two unidentified humans, deck four, section eight.
TUVOK: Isolate them with force fields.

[Pathfinder lab]

SECURITY [OC]: Security to Commander Harkins. We've been isolated by the forcefields. Can you shut down the programme?
HARKINS: I'm working on it.
COMPUTER: Access denied. Hologrid controls have been encrypted.
HARKINS: Harkins to Security. I need reinforcements.

[Holodeck - Voyager Engineering]

BARCLAY: Computer, redirect the wormhole's trajectory to Delta Quadrant, grid 11, sector 64238 and retransmit the message.
COMPUTER: Trajectory established. Transmitting.
TORRES: A wormhole? What's going on?
BARCLAY: I'm just trying to help some friends. Is there a response?
COMPUTER: Negative.
BARCLAY: Computer, redirect the wormhole's trajectory.
TORRES: Reg.
SECURITY 2: You'll have to come with me, sir.
TORRES: I'll cover for you.
(Torres fires at the man and woman, but her holographic phaser has no effect.)

[Holodeck - Jefferies tube]

BARCLAY: Computer, seal Jefferies tube door J53.

[Pathfinder lab]

HARKINS: Computer, cut all power to the hologrid.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Main power controls have been encrypted.
HARKINS: Very clever, Reg.
SECURITY 2 [OC]: Security to Commander Harkins. We've lost him, sir.
HARKINS: I've got an idea. I'm coming in.

[Holodeck - Voyager Engineering]

TORRES: I know you. You're Reg's friend. You've got something to do with what's going on here, don't you?
HARKINS: Computer, disengage primary coolant system.
TORRES: Are you crazy? That'll cause a warp core breach.
HARKINS: Exactly.
(Harkins' phaser fire removes Holo-Torres.)

[Holodeck - Voyager Bridge]

JANEWAY: Mister Barclay, I want an explanation for what's going on aboard my ship.
BARCLAY: I'm looking after Voyager's best interests, Captain. You're just going to have to trust me on that.
JANEWAY: You've never given me any reason to doubt you before.
BARCLAY: Computer, redirect the wormhole's trajectory to Delta Quadrant, grid ten, sector 3658, and retransmit the message.
COMPUTER: Trajectory established. Transmitting.
KIM: Who are you trying to contact, Reg?
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in forty five seconds.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Report.
HARKINS: Shut down the programme, Reg.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security. Intruders on the bridge.
BARCLAY: Computer, establish a forcefield around the science station.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Harry, get down to Engineering. Seal that breach.
HARKINS: Forcefields aren't going to help you, Reg. It's over.
BARCLAY: But this is my last chance.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Captain to all hands. Abandon ship.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in ten seconds. Nine, eight
HARKINS: One way or another, this programme's going to end.
COMPUTER: Seven, six, five.
BARCLAY: Good-bye, Captain.
COMPUTER: Four.
BARCLAY: Computer end programme.
COMPUTER: Two.

[Astrometrics lab]

NEELIX: I'm ready for my lesson.
SEVEN: I've concluded that teaching you to sing is an inefficient use of my time.
NEELIX: But I, I've been, I've been practicing.
SEVEN: In your case, practice is irrelevant. Your vocal chords are incapable of producing basic diatonic tones, not to mention your rhythmic shortcomings.
NEELIX: I sound so good in the sonic shower.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should confine your efforts to that location. Astrometrics to the bridge.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Go ahead, Seven.
SEVEN [OC]: I've detected what appears to be a micro-wormhole at coordinates one nine four point six by three five.
JANEWAY: A micro-wormhole.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I believe a message is being transmitted through it, on a Starfleet emergency channel.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Let's hear it, Harry.
BARCLAY [OC]: (indistinct) Starfleet Command to USS Voyager. Come in, Voyager.
JANEWAY: Try applying a narrowband filter to the signal processor.
BARCLAY [OC]: Do you hear me? This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay.
KIM: That's it. Whoever this Barclay is, he stopped transmitting.
TUVOK: The micro-wormhole is collapsing at a rate of point two percent per second.
JANEWAY: That doesn't give us much time.
CHAKOTAY: To do what?
JANEWAY: To send a message back through and hope Mister Barclay is listening.

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: It should have worked. I don't understand why it didn't.
ADMIRAL PARIS: There you are. I've reviewed Mister Barclay's plan. I think it's worth an attempt.
HARKINS: He's already tried, sir, without your authorisation. It didn't work.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I'm sorry to hear that.
BARCLAY: So am I, sir. I appreciate your confidence in me, but I, I don't deserve it.
HARKINS: What would you like me to do with him, Admiral? He broke into the lab, accessed the MIDAS array and resisted arrest.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You've put me in a difficult position, son. I was hoping that we'd be able to
TECHNICIAN: We're receiving a transmission.
ADMIRAL PARIS: From where?
TECHNICIAN: Coordinates three four three point six by two seven.
BARCLAY: The wormhole.
JANEWAY [OC]: Starfleet Command, come in.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Voyager.
HARKINS: Reg, give me a hand clearing up the signal.
BARCLAY: Lower the filter band by point three kilohertz.
JANEWAY [OC]: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. Do you read me?
HAWKINS: I think she's talking to you.
BARCLAY: Captain.

[Bridge]

BARCLAY [OC]: This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay at Starfleet Command.
JANEWAY: It's good to hear your voice, Lieutenant. We've been waiting a long time

[Pathfinder lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: For this moment.
BARCLAY: The feeling is mutual. Unfortunately, the micro-wormhole is collapsing. We have only a few moments.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Understood. We are transmitting our ship's logs, crew reports and navigational records to you now.
BARCLAY [OC]: Acknowledged. And we're sending you data on some new hyper-subspace technology.

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: We're hoping eventually to use it to keep in regular contact, and we're including some

[Bridge]

BARCLAY [OC]: Recommended modifications for your comm. system.
JANEWAY: We'll implement them as soon as possible.

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: There's someone else here who would also like to say something.
ADMIRAL PARIS: This is Admiral Paris.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Hello, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS [OC]: How are your people holding up?
JANEWAY: Very well. They're an exemplary crew, your son included.

[Pathfinder lab]

ADMIRAL PARIS: Tell him, tell him I miss him.

[Bridge]

ADMIRAL PARIS [OC]: And I'm proud of him.
JANEWAY: He heard you, Admiral.

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: The wormhole is collapsing.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I want you all to know we're doing everything we can to bring you home.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We appreciate it, sir. Keep a docking bay open for us.

[Pathfinder lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: We hope to see you
BARCLAY: That's it. They're gone.
HARKINS: You did it, Reg. I'm sorry I doubted you.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Why the long face, Mister Barclay?
BARCLAY: Because, because it's over, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: No, Lieutenant. I'd say that Project Voyager is just beginning, thanks to you.

[Mess hall]

(A champagne celebration is taking place.)
TORRES: Anyone know this Barclay?
EMH: I took the liberty of reviewing his personnel file. He's had a rather colourful career, not to mention an unusual medical history. He's recovered from a variety of maladies, including transporter phobia and holo-addiction.
JANEWAY: Well, whatever his problems, he certainly came through for us.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet should give him a promotion.
SEVEN: I finished analysing the data Mister Barclay sent. The hyper-subspace technology is promising. I believe we can look forward to future communications with Earth.
NEELIX: Well, that calls for a toast.
JANEWAY: Care to do the honours, Tom?
PARIS: To my Dad. It's nice to know he's still there. And to the newest honorary member of the Voyager crew, Reginald Barclay. Whoever you are.
JANEWAY: Here, here. To Mister Barclay.

[Barclay's Apartment]

(Another champagne celebration.)
TROI: Congratulations.
BARCLAY: Well, I'm not not sure I deserve congratulations.
TROI: Why not? It's quite an accomplishment.
BARCLAY: I, I couldn't have done it without your help.
TROI: What did Commander Harkins have to say about it?
BARCLAY: Well, I think, I think he was pleased.
TROI: Why wouldn't he be? You're quite a catch.
BARCLAY: Well, not everyone would want a sister-in-law to date someone with my history.
TROI: It's a new era. So tell me all about the lucky lady. I want details.
BARCLAY: Well, her name is Hope.
TROI: You're kidding.
BARCLAY: No And, and, and she loves cats.


S6 E11
Fair Haven
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 12 January 2000

[Holodeck - Fair Haven Street]
(The steam train disgorges trunks and passengers at Cuan Someanta, the sort of idyllic cod-Irish town that exists only in the folk memory of several-generations-removed descendants of US Irish immigrants. Sheep are driven down the cobbled street, and a young couple clip past in a small two-wheeled pony carriage. Paris is in local clothing, and he is greeted by a servant girl sweeping the pavement outside her master's house.)
GRACE: Good morning, Tom.
PARIS: Good morning, Grace.
(He is accosted by a middle-aged man in a bowler hat.)
SEAMUS: So, where you heading?
PARIS: Sullivan's. Care to join me?
SEAMUS: Ah, I wish I could, but there's a bit of a problem.
PARIS: Oh, really?
SEAMUS: Well, you see, Tommy-me-boy, the Good Lord blessed me with a fine wife. I'll never forget the day I met her. I was on me way to the Fair in Dooleen, or was it Kilkee? There's some fine trout fishing to be had in Kilkee this time of year.
PARIS: Who said anything about trout?
SEAMUS: Timothy Ryan, God rest his soul. He was one for the trout. The poor man's been dead a fortnight. Some say he had the croup, but don't you believe it. The widow Moore gave him the Evil Eye.
PARIS: And your point?
SEAMUS: Me wife and I, well, we've hit a bit of a rough patch. A better woman never walked the face of the earth.
PARIS: She threw you out again.
SEAMUS: With nothing but the clothes on me back.
PARIS: How much?
SEAMUS: A shilling or two should suffice.
PARIS: Keep the change.
SEAMUS: God bless you, Tommy-me-boy
(Kim is over by the flower-seller's stall. He is in a neat jacket and straw boater.)
PARIS: Harry, weren't you supposed to meet me at Sullivan's?
KIM: Sorry. I got distracted by the, er, scenery. This is Maggie.
PARIS: We've met. Could you excuse us?
MAGGIE: Charmed to have met you, Harry.
KIM: Charmed. What's the hurry?
PARIS: A word to the wise. Stay away from Maggie O'Halloran. She's promised to a pig farmer with a very large rake.
KIM: Does she have a sister?
PARIS: Wooden teeth.
KIM: Nothing an adjustment to the holomatrix wouldn't fix.
PARIS: No, no. I'm not changing a thing. Fair Haven is perfect just the way it is.
KIM: Tommy boy, you forgot the leprechauns.
PARIS: No. No leprechauns, no aliens, no starships. I want this to be a place where the crew can unwind.
(The parish priest rings his bicycle bell and dismounts.)
EMH: Morning, lads.
PARIS: Ah. Heard any good confessions lately?
EMH: Doctor-patient confidentiality, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Harry hasn't seen Sullivan's yet. You care to join us?
EMH: Don't mind if I do. I'll need to leave no later than thirteen hundred hours.
PARIS: Medical emergency?
EMH: Not exactly. I'm working on my homily for Sunday's mass and I expect both you sinners to be in attendance.
PARIS: He's kidding, right?
KIM: You wanted authenticity.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]

PARIS: Everybody, place your bets.
SEAMUS: Three bob on Liam.
PARIS: Three bob it is.
EMH: Five shillings on Liam.
PARIS: You're going to hurt Harry's feelings.
EMH: Very well. Two shillings on Mister Kim and I'll pray for a miracle.
SEAMUS: Excuse me, Father, but I'm needing a bit of counsel.
EMH: I'm off duty right now.
SEAMUS: But I've broken the fifth commandment again.
EMH: Say ten Our Fathers and call me in the morning.
(Seamus blesses himself.)
EMH: Gentlemen.
(The arm wrestling match starts.)
EMH: Come on, come on Mister Kim, show him what for. You can do it!
(Janeway is in uniform. She approaches the bartender.)
MICHAEL: What'll it be?
JANEWAY: I'm looking for some friends of mine.
MICHAEL: We're all friends here.
JANEWAY: Well, then, have you seen Tom Paris?
MICHAEL: He's right over there, with young Harry. Poor sod. I'm afraid no one's whipped Liam in three years.
JANEWAY: There's a first time for everything.
MICHAEL: An optimist, are you?
JANEWAY: A realist.
EMH: Come on, Ensign, try. Try!
SEAMUS: Come on, me boy. Push! Push!
KIM: I'm trying!
EMH: Come on. Try harder.
SEAMUS: You got him. You got him.
(Kim's hand is nearly on the table.)
EMH: You're losing.
(Kim rallies.)
SEAMUS: What in God's name? Come on, Liam. Push!
(Kim wins the match.)
KIM: Yes! Yes!
EMH: I knew you could do it, Ensign.
JANEWAY: So this is the programme I've been hearing so much about.
PARIS: Welcome, weary traveller.
JANEWAY: You have outdone yourself this time. Everything is authentic, except for one tiny detail.
PARIS: Oh?
JANEWAY: The harp on the sign. It's backwards.
(True, the one over the fireplace faces right instead of left.)
PARIS: Oh, everybody's a critic.
EMH: As I recall, the Captain is quite an aficionado of Irish history.
JANEWAY: I hate to break up the party, but we have some business to attend to. There's a neutronic wavefront approaching. Class nine.
KIM: Class nine?
PARIS: Sorry, boys. Duty calls.
SEAMUS: Ah, wavefront? Now, what in the name of God is that?
PARIS: Er, a wee bit of bad weather.
SEAMUS: Oh.
(Janeway looks at Michael for a few moments before leaving.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Borg classification three four seven nine two. Particle density anomaly.
PARIS: Where'd it come from?
SEVEN: I believe it was formed by the collision of two neutron stars. The wavefront is travelling at a velocity of two hundred thousand kilometres per second, and it extends for three point six light years.
CHAKOTAY: How long before it hits?
SEVEN: Approximately fifteen hours.
TORRES: We're already feeling its effects. The neutron radiation is disrupting plasma flow. We can't jump to warp.
PARIS: Impulse power won't be enough to outrun that thing.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to ride it out. We'll generate an inverse warp field and drop anchor. That should protect us from the turbulence.
CHAKOTAY: What about the radiation? It'll only get worse.
JANEWAY: Have the doctor prepare inoculations for the crew. Go to yellow alert. Tom, B'Elanna, get started on converting the warp core.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Let's batten down the hatches.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Captain.
JANEWAY: Just burning the midnight oil.
NEELIX: Midnight's come and gone.
JANEWAY: Then it's time for a break.
NEELIX: Do you mind?
JANEWAY: I could use the company. This approaching wavefront is bringing back some unpleasant memories.
NEELIX: How so?
JANEWAY: You know I grew up on a farm in Indiana. We used to have some terrible thunderstorms during the summer months. At the first bolt of lightning I'd bolt under the bed.
NEELIX: We had some pretty nasty weather on Talax, too. I always enjoyed a good ion storm.
JANEWAY: Give me clear skies any day.
NEELIX: Now that you bring it up, I am concerned with keeping up morale over the next few days. The crew is not used to sitting still.
JANEWAY: Suggestions?
NEELIX: Everyone seems to love Fair Haven. I was thinking we might initiate an open door protocol on the holodeck. Keep the programme running twenty four hours a day. Let people come and go as they please.
JANEWAY: Permission granted. Fair Haven's just become our port in the storm.
NEELIX: I'm heading down there myself, if you'd like to join me. There's a charming little inn called the Ox and Lamb. The owner offered to share some of his recipes.
JANEWAY: No, thanks. I still have work to do.
NEELIX: Okay.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]

(It is way past closing time. Michael is putting the stools up on the tables.)
MICHAEL: What'll it be?
JANEWAY: A cup of tea would be nice.
MICHAEL: I just made one. Cream?
JANEWAY: Please.
MICHAEL: So, what brings you to Fair Haven, Miss?
JANEWAY: Kathryn. I'm just passing through on my way home.
MICHAEL: How long have you been on the road?
JANEWAY: Five years, almost six.
MICHAEL: You must be homesick.
JANEWAY: No. Sometimes. Thank you.
MICHAEL: Cead mile failte.
JANEWAY: Translation?
MICHAEL: A hundred thousand welcomes. It's an old Irish saying. We're all friends here.
JANEWAY: I had an aunt who used to have a saying like that. A stranger is a friend you just haven't met yet.
MICHAEL: Definitely Irish.
JANEWAY: She had an Irish temper, too. She and my uncle had a place not far from here, in County Clare.
MICHAEL: Ah. Then you're closer to home than you think, Katie O'Clare.
JANEWAY: You know, it's later than I thought and I've kept you long enough.
MICHAEL: Oh no, stay awhile. Didn't your auntie teach you that it's impolite to leave without playing a game of rings?
JANEWAY: I really can't, but thanks for the tea.
MICHAEL: Afraid you'd lose?
JANEWAY: I rarely lose.
MICHAEL: Prove it.
JANEWAY: One game.
MICHAEL: I'll set them up.
(And later, another ring goes over one of the thirteen numbered hooks in the shield on the wall. Think darts without the arrows)
MICHAEL: Another ringer.
JANEWAY: And I'm not surprised. You stepped over the beer stain.
MICHAEL: I did not.
JANEWAY: You did too, by half a boot, and then you moved back, hoping I wouldn't notice.
MICHAEL: These boots are half a size too large, so in reality my toes never crossed the line. Your turn.
JANEWAY: For luck.
MICHAEL: Getting sweet with the rings isn't going to help you.
JANEWAY: We'll see. Damn.
(Her ring clatters to the floor.)
MICHAEL: Devil won't help you, either.
JANEWAY: Well, maybe rings aren't my forte after all. Would you care to arm wrestle?
MICHAEL: That's not a woman's game, Katie. You could get hurt.
JANEWAY: I'm stronger than I look.
(They grip hands on the bar.)
MICHAEL: Ah! That's quite a grip you have.
JANEWAY: Not bad yourself.
MICHAEL: I couldn't help but notice that you have your leg braced against the bar.
JANEWAY: Well, how else do you expect me to win?
MICHAEL: Will we call it a draw?
JANEWAY: Sounds good to me.
(They release.)
MICHAEL: Shall we run a foot race down to the station and back? It's good to make a new friend. You have a nice way about you.
JANEWAY: Flattery's the food of fools.
MICHAEL: Another pearl of wisdom from your auntie?
JANEWAY: No, Jonathan Swift
MICHAEL: Swift? Never heard of him.
JANEWAY: He was an author.
MICHAEL: I was never one for reading.
JANEWAY: That's too bad. Some of the greatest writers in the world are Irish.
MICHAEL: Well, they say that Doctor Gilroy has a library of books and, well, next time I see him I'll ask him can I borrow one or two?
(A woman enters.)
FRANNIE: Good morning.
MICHAEL: Good morning. Oh, my God, will you look at the time? Frannie, come here. There's someone I want you to meet. Katie O'Clare, this is my wife, Frances.
JANEWAY: Pleased to meet you.
FRANNIE: I hope Michael hasn't been bending your ear all night long.
JANEWAY: My ear, my elbow.
MICHAEL: We were arm wrestling.
FRANNIE: Such a gentleman.
JANEWAY: Thank you very much for your hospitality and now I really must be leaving.
MICHAEL: And, er, drop in again before you leave town.
JANEWAY: I will.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is inoculating the crew against the radiation.)
EMH: If you experience any dizziness report to Sickbay immediately.
CREWWOMAN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Good morning, gentlemen.
EMH: I believe it's afternoon. Oversleep?
JANEWAY: Holodeck.
PARIS: Fair Haven?
JANEWAY: Welcome weary traveller.
EMH: Even I have to admit Mister Paris's latest effort is quite a tour de force.
JANEWAY: Ooh, high praise from a hologram.
PARIS: Oh, I was thinking, Captain now that we've got this open door policy, maybe I could expand Fair Haven into holodeck two. It would give me some room to create the seacoast.
JANEWAY: By all means.
EMH: Speaking of revisions, I was hoping I could give my character a more active role. In the period you've created, the village priest was the most prominent member of the community, held in the highest regard.
PARIS: That's a great idea, Doc. We could send Father Mulligan on a retreat to a nearby monastery, where he takes a vow of silence and never speaks again.
EMH: Try it, and you'll be saying Hail Marys till Saint Patrick's Day.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Time?
TUVOK: Thirty seconds
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
(Thick clouds are approaching.)
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Secure your stations and brace for impact.
(The ship shakes and consoles go Bang.)
TUVOK: We've cleared the leading edge. Turbulence is decreasing. Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Damage?
KIM: We've got a ruptured plasma conduit, deck nine.
JANEWAY: Send a repair team. Maintain yellow alert. Let's hope that was the worst of it.

Captain's personal log. It's been ten hours since the storm hit. We estimate another three days before we're clear of it. The crew's in good spirits, and many of them have taken the opportunity to visit Fair Haven. I met an interesting man there, and for a while I almost forgot he was a hologram. We weren't exactly compatible, but then again, Mister Paris didn't programme him to my specifications.

[Holographic Research Lab]

JANEWAY: Computer, display Fair Haven character Michael Sullivan. Adjust his parameters to the following specifications. Give him the education of a nineteenth century third year student at Trinity College.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Now, access the character's interactive subroutines. Make him more provocative.
COMPUTER: Specify.
JANEWAY: Give him a more complicated personality.
COMPUTER: Specify.
JANEWAY: More outspoken, more confident, not so reserved. And make him more curious about the world around him.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Good. Now, increase the character's height by three centimetres. Remove the facial hair. No, no, I don't like that. Put some back. About two days' growth. Better. Oh, one more thing. Access his interpersonal subroutines. Familial characters. Delete the wife.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Pleased to meet you, Mister Sullivan.

[Mess hall]

(Tuvok is sitting at a table. His vision is slightly blurred.)
SEVEN: Are you ill, Commander?
TUVOK: I am experiencing a slight loss of equilibrium and some gastrointestinal distress.
SEVEN: Space sickness?
TUVOK: Unlikely. I am not prone to that condition.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should go to Sickbay.
TUVOK: I'll be fine.
KIM: I'm telling you, we should add more fog.
PARIS: Fog is depressing.
KIM: It's authentic.
PARIS: It's dangerous.
KIM: All right, we could add a lighthouse.
PARIS: It's Fair Haven, Harry. Sunshine?
KIM: Tuvok, what do you think? Irish sea coast, fog or no fog?
TUVOK: I have no opinion.
PARIS: He hasn't visited our little paradise yet.
TUVOK: Nor do I intend to.
KIM: I think you'd like it, Commander. It's a great place to meditate.
(They do the appropriate hand gestures to emphasis movement.)
PARIS: Imagine yourself sitting high on a bluff overlooking the ocean. The salt air, The rhythm of the waves rising and crashing against the rocks. A tiny fishing boat bobbing on the water below. Up and down, up and down.
TUVOK: I get the idea, Ensign. Thank you.
NEELIX: Mutton, creamed cabbage or blood pudding?
SEVEN: Explain.
NEELIX: I'm preparing a traditional Irish meal at the Ox and Lamb this afternoon, and I can not decide on a main course.
PARIS: Blood pudding. You can't lose.
NEELIX: That was my first choice, too, but replicating the lamb's intestines, it, it could be tricky, And every time I try to heat the blood, it coagulates in the milk.
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me, I think I will consult the Doctor.

[Holodeck - Fair Haven Street]

(Janeway has donned period dress, and the bun of steel as a suitable hairstyle instead of her short hair. Grace is shopping at Geo Pattrick's fruit and veg barrow.)
JANEWAY: Excuse me, ma'am. Have you seen Michael Sullivan?
GRACE: Oh, you might try the pub.
JANEWAY: I just came from there.
GRACE: Oh, then he'll be at the train station.
(Janeway points along the street.)
GRACE: Yeah.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
GRACE: Sure.
(Janeway finds Michael sitting on a wrought iron bench, reading a book.)
JANEWAY: Excuse me, sir. Is the train to Galway running on time?
MICHAEL: Um, I'm afraid you've just missed it. Have a seat, wait for the next one. Do you know Jane Eldon?
JANEWAY: Eldon? No, I've never met her.
MICHAEL: I'd be terrified if you had. She's been dead seventy years. No, I was er, I was thinking about her poetry. It's too pastoral for my taste, don't you agree?
JANEWAY: I'm not familiar with her work.
MICHAEL: Really? Well, what about Sean Gogarty? They have similar rhyming schemes.
(Janeway shakes her head.)
MICHAEL: You've some catching up to do. Well, I'm here every afternoon. You should join me sometime. I tried talking poetry with Seamus, but all he can do is recite limericks.
JANEWAY: I'd love to. Strange place to read, though.
MICHAEL: Not at all. I love the sound of the trains coming and going. It gets me thinking about places I'd like to visit. Have you travelled much yourself?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact. But there's one place I haven't been yet. Castle O'Dell.
MICHAEL: It's a steep climb but from the top of the battlement you can see all the way to Dublin. We'd better be moving.
(He offers her his arm.)
MICHAEL: They say when the sun goes down the King of the Faeries reclaims the castle.
JANEWAY: Maybe he'll invite us to supper.
MICHAEL: Eh, you'll be dining alone without me. One taste of the Faeries' banquet and you'll never return to this world.
JANEWAY: Oh, don't tell me you believe those stories.
MICHAEL: Believe? No. But I do respect them. Can I ask you something, Katie?
JANEWAY: Please.
MICHAEL: Have you a man waiting for you at home?
JANEWAY: No.
MICHAEL: Are you looking for one?
JANEWAY: Why? Do you have somebody?
MICHAEL: In Fair Haven? Not unless you fancy a pig farmer.
JANEWAY: Oh, not my type.
MICHAEL: What about a barkeeper who reads poetry in strange places?
CHAKOTAY: Captain? I thought that was you.
(Chakotay is in uniform.)
JANEWAY: Just getting in the spirit.
CHAKOTAY: I can see that. I don't believe we've met.
MICHAEL: Sullivan. Michael Sullivan.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay.
MICHAEL: That's a fine tattoo. Are you off a ship?
CHAKOTAY: You could say that.
MICHAEL: We're on the way up to the old castle. You're welcome to come with us.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks, but, er, I'm meeting Neelix at the Ox and Lamb. You two have fun.
MICHAEL: Is it my imagination, or did he call you captain?
JANEWAY: Did he?

[Bridge]

(Voyager is engulfed in space fog.)
CHAKOTAY: Looks like the worst is yet to come.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I just came from Astrometrics. Seven's found an increase in the neutronic gradient at the trailing edge of the wavefront. It's going to be a rough ride when it hits.
JANEWAY: We've still got two days. Start working on a new shield modulation.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: That could explain my recent space sickness. Vulcan physiology is highly sensitive to neutronic gradients.
PARIS: You'd make a good barometer, Tuvok. Every time you get queasy, we go to red alert.
JANEWAY: Thanks for your report, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Don't mention it. Hills most green, hearts unseen.
JANEWAY: Yes. Jane Eldon. Catching up on a little reading.
CHAKOTAY: Those hills and hearts wouldn't happen to be in Ireland?
JANEWAY: You can wipe that smirk off your face. It's not what you think.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't thinking anything, but now that you mentioned it
JANEWAY: I have an interest in Irish culture.
CHAKOTAY: It's understandable. They've produced great writers for hundreds of years. Not to mention great bartenders.
JANEWAY: He's a hologram.
CHAKOTAY: I couldn't help but notice he seemed a little taller than the last time I saw him.
JANEWAY: Yes, I made a few modifications.
CHAKOTAY: In the interest of Irish culture.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
CHAKOTAY: You seemed embarrassed when I ran into you. There was no reason to be. It was nice to see you having a little fun.
JANEWAY: He is rather charming, isn't he? Too bad he's made of photons and forcefields.
CHAKOTAY: I never let that stand in my way.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]

(A dance, with a fiddle band playing.)
MICHAEL: The boys are getting tired.
JANEWAY: Them, or you?
MICHAEL: Faster, boys.
(The music finally ends.)
JANEWAY: Computer, remove all characters except for Michael Sullivan.
MICHAEL: Can I ask you something, Katie?
JANEWAY: Please.
MICHAEL: Would you mind if I kissed you?
JANEWAY: I might even kiss you back.
MICHAEL: There's no point in waiting any longer, is there?
JANEWAY: Oh, I think I've waited long enough.
(So they kiss.)
MICHAEL: Is there something wrong?
JANEWAY: No.
(And she falls into his arms again.)

[Janeway's quarters]

(Janeway picks up a pile of books, presumably Irish 19th century poetry, and takes them to the replicator.)
JANEWAY: Computer, recycle.
(Door chime.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
NEELIX: I thought you'd like to know we've organised a rings tournament tonight at Sullivan's.
JANEWAY: Thanks, Neelix, but I have work to do.
NEELIX: The Doctor's going to sing something called Danny Boy, and Mossie Donegan's promised to bring his talking pig.
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say I'd rather stick to reality right now.
NEELIX: Nineteen hundred hours, if you change your mind.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]

(Seven throws a 13 ring.)
SEAMUS: Saints preserve us.
SEVEN: I possess superior hand-eye coordination.
SEAMUS: That's not all that's superior. The lily and the rose are staging a competition in your face.
SEVEN: Clarify.
SEAMUS: The fullness of your lips and the paleness of your cheeks, it's enough to make a man faint.
SEVEN: Then in that case, perhaps we should sit down.
KIM: I don't believe it.
PARIS: It's called old-world charm, Harry.
NEELIX: What'll it be, gentlemen?
(Neelix is barman tonight.)
EMH: Nothing for me. Temperance is a virtue.
PARIS: Where's Michael?
NEELIX: Over there.
(Sitting at a table with a bottle of whiskey.)
PARIS: That's strange. I programmed him not to drink.
NEELIX: Must be a glitch in his subroutine.
(They go over to Michael's table.)
EMH: Are these seats taken?
MICHAEL: Sit anywhere you like.
(He tosses back another drink.)
MICHAEL: Vile. It's been fifteen years since I touched the stuff.
PARIS: You making up for lost time?
MICHAEL: I was hoping it might ease the pain.
EMH: Are you in discomfort?
MICHAEL: Agony's more like it. How could you do this to me, Lord? Why don't you ask him? You've got his ear, don't you?
EMH: Well
MICHAEL: Three days. The happiest three days of my life. I was a fool to think she felt the same. I was such a fool!
SEAMUS: Aw, sit down, Sullivan.
MICHAEL: Shut your mouth, man, or I'll shut it for you.
SEAMUS: Oh, you will, will you?
PARIS: Hey, hey. Take it easy. Why don't you tell us what happened?
MICHAEL: We, we spent a perfect day together by the lake. I drifted off to sleep and when I woke up, she was gone. Where is she, Tom?
PARIS: Who?
MICHAEL: Katie O'Clare, who else?
PARIS: Katie O'Clare?
MICHAEL: Your friend.
PARIS: Are you sure you didn't misinterpret her interests? I mean, we're all friends here. Maybe she was just being friendly.
MICHAEL: Are you calling me a liar?
PARIS: No, no, not at all.
MICHAEL: I thought Katie and me were in love.
PARIS: (sotto) I may have to do some reprogramming.
MICHAEL: What's the matter? You don't think I'm good enough for her?
PARIS: No, I, I didn't say that.
MICHAEL: Well, tell me where she's gone.
PARIS: I don't know.
MICHAEL: Well, I think you do.
(Michael grabs Paris. A fight begins.)
EMH: Gentlemen, please! Love thy neighbour.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is patching up the human losers.)
KIM: Let's see, I remember trying to reach the holodeck controls, Then, er, somebody grabbed my leg.
PARIS: Maybe it was the talking pig.
KIM: If it was, he had one hell of a left hook.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: What's all this?
EMH: I'm afraid there's been some trouble in paradise. An altercation in the pub this afternoon. Several crewmen were injured. Nothing serious.
JANEWAY: Arm wrestling get out of hand, boys?
NEELIX: Not exactly.
KIM: It was Michael Sullivan, Captain. He was (Paris coughs) looking for someone.
EMH: Why don't we take a little walk?

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Let me guess. that someone is me.
EMH: I don't mean to pry, Captain, but we've got a broken-hearted hologram who believed that the two of you were in love.
JANEWAY: Oh, I was sure he'd be on to the next lass by now. I hope he's all right.
EMH: Far from it. The fight spilled out onto the street. Before long, he'd climbed up a tree and began shouting your name. Mister Neelix managed to talk him down.
JANEWAY: It could be a malfunction in his behavioural subroutines.
EMH: I've already checked that. His subroutines are fine, but I did notice you'd made quite a number of alterations to his programme.
JANEWAY: Minor improvements.
EMH: To make him more appealing?
JANEWAY: You're starting to pry, Doctor.
EMH: I apologise for overstepping my bounds but I'm worried about you. Michael Sullivan is a hologram. His broken heart can be mended with the flick of a switch. Your feelings however, are a little more complicated.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to be climbing any trees, if that's what you're worried about.
EMH: If you decide you want to talk, I've been hearing a lot of confessions lately. Let me know.
JANEWAY: You want a confession, Doctor? All right. I've become romantically involved with a hologram. If that's possible.
EMH: Tell me what happened.
JANEWAY: Well, you know the story. Girl meets boy, girl modifies boy's subroutines
EMH: Did you have intimate relations?
JANEWAY: That's none of your business. Let's just say it was a memorable three days.
EMH: I don't see the problem.
JANEWAY: Don't you? Michael Sullivan is exactly my type. Attractive, intelligent. We share the same interests. And if there's something I don't like, I can simply change it.
EMH: I've noticed that humans usually try to change the people they fall in love with. What's the difference?
JANEWAY: In this case, it works. We had a picnic by the lake yesterday afternoon. Michael drifted off to sleep. His head was lying on my shoulder and I remember thinking, this is close to perfect. Then he began to snore. Did I nudge him with my elbow hoping he'd roll over and stop? Did I whisper in his ear to wake him? No. Why bother? When I could simply access the computer and alter his vocal algorithms? And that's exactly what I was about to do, when I realised that everything around me was an illusion, including him. So I left. I almost wrote him a note to say goodbye. Can you believe that, a Dear John letter to a hologram?
EMH: I understand your trepidation, but you're the captain. You can't have a relationship with a member of your crew. They're all your subordinates. So where does that leave you? The occasional dalliance with a passing alien? Voyager could be in the Delta Quadrant for a very long time. A hologram may be the only logical alternative.
JANEWAY: He's not real.
EMH: He's as real as I am. Photons and forcefields, flesh and blood. It's all the same as long as your feelings are real. He makes a joke, you laugh. Is that an illusion? He says something that makes you think. Does it matter how his molecules are aligned? Did it ever occur to you that it's not just a question of whether or not he's real?
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: I think you should stop trying to control every aspect of this relationship. Romance is born out of differences as well as similarities. Out of the unexpected, as well as the familiar.
JANEWAY: Maybe I just needed to be sure that he'd love me back.
EMH: But isn't that the risk you always take, hologram or not? All I know is, Michael Sullivan was up in that tree shouting your name.
JANEWAY: I've never been afraid of taking risks.
EMH: Then perhaps, next time, you should just let him snore.

[Bridge]

(The storm is raging.)
KIM: The neutronic gradient's rising. Thirty million terajoules. Forty million.
JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
KIM: Sixty million.
TORRES [OC]: Torres to bridge. The inverse warp field's destabilising. We're losing our anchor.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. How long before we're clear?
PARIS: At least another five minutes.
KIM: That's about four minutes too long. The gradient's rising fast. Ninety million.
PARIS: Stabilisers are offline.
(Voyager starts to pitch and yaw.)
CHAKOTAY: Thrusters?
PARIS: No effect.
TUVOK: Shields are failing.
CHAKOTAY: How close are we to the perimeter?
PARIS: A thousand kilometres, but we're being pulled along with the storm.
JANEWAY: What have you got in mind?
CHAKOTAY: The deflector beam. We might be able to cut a path through the wavefront.
TUVOK: It's possible, but we'd have to route all available power to the emitters.
KIM: That won't be enough. Primary systems are down.
JANEWAY: Then transfer all secondary power sources. Transporters, replicators, holodecks.
KIM: Captain, there's not enough time to go through the hologrid shutdown sequence. We'd lose most of Fair Haven.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Hull fractures, deck six and seven.
KIM: You've got all the secondary power, Tuvok. Is it enough?
TUVOK: Negative.
CHAKOTAY: Siphon energy from the plasma network. Every last deciwatt.
TUVOK: Deflector beam active.
PARIS: We're approaching the perimeter. Five hundred kilometres. Four hundred.
TUVOK: Deflector output is dropping.
JANEWAY: Give him everything we've got. Life support, environmental controls. Scrape the residual ions off the sonic showers if you have to.
(The deflector beam punches a hole through the storm and they pass into calm space.)

[Holodeck - Fair Haven Street]

(There is a lot of flickering.)
KIM: Doesn't look good, Tom. With this much photonic decay we'll be able to save five, maybe ten percent.
PARIS: So much for the luck of the Irish.
KIM: It might be easier to start from scratch.
PARIS: It wouldn't be the same. It's like trying to rewrite a novel after the only copy of the data file has been deleted. All the details, the nuances, they're all gone.
SEAMUS: Morning, lads.
KIM: Hey, Seamus.
SEAMUS: Looks like a storm brewing.
PARIS: A storm?
SEAMUS: Heading in from the west. Could be a big one.  
(The hologrid is flickering in the sky.)
PARIS: Oh. Right.
SEAMUS: I don't suppose you could spare a shilling or two? Me wife and I made up last night and I wanted to buy her a new parasol.
(Seamus vanishes.)
PARIS: The grid's destabilising. We'd better get started on those repairs.
KIM: So, what do we try and save? The Ox and Lamb? The church? Maggie O'Halloran?
PARIS: There's someone I should talk to before we decide.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
PARIS: Fair Haven didn't fare too well.
JANEWAY: I'll break the news to the crew.
PARIS: With your permission, I'd like to try to reconstruct the programme.
JANEWAY: How long will it take?
PARIS: Six or seven weeks. Harry tells me that we should be able to save about ten percent of the existing elements. I thought you might have a suggestion or two.

[Holodeck Research Lab]

JANEWAY: Computer, is Fair Haven character Michael Sullivan still intact?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Activate him. Hello.
MICHAEL: You disappeared on me, Katie. I woke up and you'd gone.
JANEWAY: I had some thinking to do.
MICHAEL: Are you done?
JANEWAY: Yes. I'm leaving Fair Haven.
MICHAEL: Why?
JANEWAY: Because.
MICHAEL: That's not a very good reason.
JANEWAY: The situation is complicated.
MICHAEL: Another man?
JANEWAY: No.
MICHAEL: Your friends, they don't approve of me?
JANEWAY: They think you're charming.
MICHAEL: Are you not ready to settle down yet?
JANEWAY: I'm as ready as I'll ever be.
MICHAEL: You're not making any sense.
JANEWAY: No, I guess I'm not.
MICHAEL: I have a feeling that you won't be forgetting us that easily, Fair Haven has that effect on people. But there's one thing I want you to know. I love you, Katie.
JANEWAY: I might actually be passing this way in six or seven weeks. Maybe I'll stop by the pub.
MICHAEL: See that you do.
(She kisses him.)
JANEWAY: Oh computer, end programme. Wait. I want to make one more modification to the character.
COMPUTER: Specify.
JANEWAY: Deny Kathryn Janeway any future access to his behavioural subroutines. 
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Save programme.


S6 E12
Blink Of An Eye
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 19 January 2000

[Bridge]
(The object is spinning so fast, its clouds dip in at the poles and spread out round the equator.)
PARIS: That's one planet that never showed up on the multiple choice exam.
TUVOK: Its gravimetric readings are similar to that of a collapsed dwarf star. It also resembles a quasar, in that it has a high rate of rotation, approximately fifty eight revolutions per minute.
JANEWAY: Shall we take a closer look?
CHAKOTAY: That's what we're here for.
JANEWAY: Tom, put us in a high orbit.
PARIS: Aye.
(Rumble.)
TUVOK: Our warp drive is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Back us off.
PARIS: Our impulse engines aren't responding.
JANEWAY: The use the auxiliary thrusters.
KIM: We're in some kind of gravimetric gradient. It's pulling us toward the planet.
(Energy plays over Voyager's hull.)

[Planet surface - early culture]

(The locals have long greasy hair and are dressed in skins. One of the places a fruit on an altar, then the ground shakes. A new star shines in the sky.)
SHAMAN: The new one is brighter than Tahal, or any of his brothers in the sky.
NATIVE: What does he want from us?
SHAMAN: To answer that, we must learn the nature of this god. We must understand the reason for his arrival. You were making an offering to Tahal.
NATIVE: I placed the fire-fruit on his altar. Then the ground shook. I looked up and the new one was there.
SHAMAN: The fire-fruit. Where is it?
(It had fallen onto the ground. The shaman picks it up.)
SHAMAN: The new one doesn't want Tahal to have the fire-fruit. Make an altar for him, as big as Tahal's. The fire-fruit is only for the New One. No more for the people. It is His alone. Ground Shaker, Light Bringer, take this today, and every day. Accept our offering. Do not harm us.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We're in synchronous orbit, fifty seven thousand kilometres above the planet's equator.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Tom. Now, let's see
PARIS: You're patting the wrong guy on the back.
JANEWAY: Explain.
PARIS: Our thrusters went offline halfway through our descent and then we just stopped, like we were caught in something.
TUVOK: I'm picking up a strong tachyon field along the hull. It could be what's holding us.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Seven.
SEVEN [OC]: Please report to Astrometrics. There's something you must see.
JANEWAY: On my way. Chakotay.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The planet has a tachyon core. It's produced a subspace particle field which runs between the poles. Voyager's arrival disrupted that field.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like the ship's been caught in an eddy of some kind.
JANEWAY: It's worse than that. Voyager seems to have become the planet's third pole.
SEVEN: The imbalance is affecting the outer crust. I've picked up indications of high-frequency seismic activity.
CHAKOTAY: Caused by our presence?
SEVEN: Possibly.
JANEWAY: Does anybody live down there?
SEVEN: The atmosphere is having a scattering effect on our sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Is that vegetation?
SEVEN: According to sensors, yes.
JANEWAY: The tachyon core has created a space-time differential between the planet and the surrounding space. We're watching the seasons change in a matter of seconds.
SEVEN: For each second that passes on Voyager, nearly a day goes by on the planet.
JANEWAY: Scan for inhabitants.
SEVEN: I can't isolate individual lifeforms. It'll take time to correct for the space-time differential
CHAKOTAY: A couple of hundred years, maybe? If our orbit starts to decay, Voyager will begin to feel the effects of the differential and we'll begin aging hundreds of times faster than we would in normal space.
JANEWAY: Unless we want to live our lives in the blink of an eye, I suggest we find a way out of here.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: How's our warp core?
TORRES: The matter-antimatter reaction is still active, but this field we're stuck in is raising hell with the nacelles. Until we break orbit, warp drive is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Without warp drive, we'll never leave orbit.
TORRES: It does pose a bit of a problem, doesn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the key is to learn more about this planet, in case we're missing something.
TORRES: Sensors aren't having an easy time of it either.
CHAKOTAY: Then let's modify a class-five probe for low orbit, see what we can pick up. Configure the programme to scan along all subspace bands, and set it for visual images every ten milliseconds.
TORRES: Snapshots. Why do I get the feeling you're not just interested in tachyon fields?
CHAKOTAY: This could be the greatest anthropological find of my career. If there's an intelligent species down there, we'll be able to track their development, not just for days or weeks, but for centuries.
TORRES: Watch them discover new and better ways of beating each other over the head.
CHAKOTAY: They won't necessarily follow the Klingon model.
TORRES: As opposed to the Human model? It'll take a few hours to make the adjustments.
CHAKOTAY: A few hours. We might miss the rise and fall of a civilisation.
TORRES: So we'll watch the next one.

[Planet surface - Renaissance]

(Woven clothes and leather footwear. Large stone structures, a walled town or castle.)
CLERIC: Oh. Oh, Protector.
KELEMENE: You're late.
CLERIC: Well, the hill is steep, and I, I'm not as young as I used to be.
KELEMENE: More heat.
(The man inflating the hot air balloon looks up.)
KELEMENE: There are grave matters of state here that cannot be delayed.
CLERIC: Protector, what exactly are you doing?
KELEMENE: I'm sending him a letter.
CLERIC: Him? Sending who a letter?
KELEMENE: The Ground Shaker. The Light Bringer.
CLERIC: Had you been more attentive to my lessons when you were a boy, you would not be so gullible as a man.
KELEMENE: On the contrary, you taught me well. Our ignorant ancestors believed every star was a deity. You taught me how foolish that was. Superstition, you called it.
CLERIC: And that's exactly what it is.
KELEMENE: Hungry?
CLERIC: It's bad fortune to eat the fire-fruit.
KELEMENE: According to whom? Our ancestors? Don't tell me you believe that old superstition? Perhaps we shouldn't completely ignore the old beliefs, no matter how strange they may seem today. Ground Shaker. Ground shaker. Isn't it possible the name was not given arbitrarily? That this star is indeed responsible for knocking down our walls and making us stumble as we walk?
CLERIC: Oh yes, I heard about that. My condolences.
KELEMENE: You heard what?
CLERIC: Well, that you stumbled in front of several important people during the last ground shake. Uh, very embarrassing, I'm sure.
KELEMENE: I did nothing of the sort.
CLERIC: Well, my hearing is not as good as it used to be, nor my memory either. Now, what were we talking about?
KELEMENE: We were talking about ancient superstitions. Now, I don't believe for a moment that the stars are gods, but then, what are they?
CLERIC: A great mystery to which there is no answer.
KELEMENE: I believe the sky is full of people just like ourselves.
CLERIC: What? Oh, nonsense.
KELEMENE: Prove me wrong. I say each star encompasses a city and the Ground Shaker rules one of these cities. A fellow Protector. If I'm correct, then he'll listen to me, one Protector to another. Your pen.
(The cleric takes a quill and paper out of his wooden case and sets it up to write on.)
KELEMENE: I, Kelemane.
CLERIC: Kelemane.
KELEMENE: Son of Kelemane, ruler of the good people of the land below you, demand that you stop what you're
CLERIC: Demand?
KELEMENE: Would hope?
CLERIC: Ah, better. Much better.
KELEMENE: Would hope that you might consider putting an end to whatever it is you're doing that shakes our ground. If this causes you inconvenience I'm willing to offer a recompense.
CLERIC: A recompense.
KELEMENE: I await your reply.
(The cleric hands the letter to Kelemene, who then goes down steps and puts it in a container attached to the small hot air balloon. The balloon is released, and flies gently upwards.)

[Engineering]

(The probe is in orbit.)
TORRES: The next series of scans is coming through. I'm downloading them into the display buffer.
CHAKOTAY: No doubt about it. There's a city down there.
TORRES: Elevated levels of carbon monoxide, ammonium. That's progress, all right.
CHAKOTAY: They've developed internal combustion technology since the last few scans. Look at those radial lines. It looks like a system of roads.
TORRES: Well, one thing hasn't changed. The geological disturbances that Voyager seems to be causing. The probe recorded half a dozen each month. Still no way to tell how severe they are.
CHAKOTAY: Look at the amount of iron being used in that city. That's ten times what you'd expect to see in a culture at this stage of development.
TORRES: Do you think they're using it to support their buildings?
CHAKOTAY: If you lived on a planet that wouldn't stop shaking, you might be doing the same thing. If they've reached this stage of industrial development, they must be observing us.
TORRES: The probe's impulse thrusters are starting to fail. At its present altitude, it's been operating for over two hundred years. Its orbit is becoming decayed.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate self-destruct.
TORRES: It disintegrated in the upper thermosphere. If they saw anything, it just looked like a shooting star.

[Planet surface - observatory]

(Voyager is just about visible through the reflective telescope. Basic electronics and radio technology now.)
ASTRONOMER: Any response to our transmission?
TECHNICIAN: Nothing.
ASTRONOMER: No visual change either.
TECHNICIAN: Surprised?
ASTRONOMER: Send it again.
TECHNICIAN: The entire sequence? How about just the prime numbers?
ASTRONOMER: You're tired.
TECHNICIAN: So are you.
ASTRONOMER: The prime numbers and the elemental constants, then we'll stop.
TECHNICIAN: An acceptable compromise. It's not as if they're going anywhere, if they even exist in the first place.
ASTRONOMER: Do you doubt that?
TECHNICIAN: I doubt everything.
ASTRONOMER: So you weren't one of those children that had the entire series of Sky Ship Friends?
TECHNICIAN: Actually, I had them all, even the duplicates. You couldn't walk into my home without tripping over a Friend or two.
ASTRONOMER: Not in our home. My grandfather wouldn't allow it. He told us that the Sky Ship was a palace where an Evil Protector lived. He said that bad children were sent there to be punished. At this point, I'd be happy to see anything, evil or not. Can you boost the signal?
TECHNICIAN: We're already at maximum. Maybe if we switched to a different carrier wave to
(Rumble.)
TECHNICIAN: If there is somebody up there, they don't like us very much.
ASTRONOMER: Any beings capable of building that Sky Ship could have destroyed our world long ago. They're not causing the tremors on purpose.
TECHNICIAN: What if they're all dead?
ASTRONOMER: If you truly believe that, why did you join this project?
TECHNICIAN: I doubt everything, remember? Even my own doubts. I hope someone is up there.
ASTRONOMER: So do I.
TECHNICIAN: If they won't respond to mathematics, perhaps we should try a more personal approach. Here, say hello.
ASTRONOMER: How could they possibly speak our language?
TECHNICIAN: There's only one way to find out.
ASTRONOMER: What, what should I say?
TECHNICIAN: Oh, glad to meet you. Where are you from? Please stop shaking our planet.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: An ultra high frequency signal is being transmitted from the surface. The modulation is unfamiliar. Its Doppler component is
CHAKOTAY: Any signal from the surface will be accelerated. When it reached our time frame, the frequency would be thousands of times higher than normal.
SEVEN: I will attempt to slow it down.
CHAKOTAY: Again. Amplitude modulation. It's a radio transmission.
SEVEN: It's a numerical sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Prime numbers. They're sending a list of prime numbers.
SEVEN: Followed by a sequence of mathematical constants, and what appears to be a vocal modulation.
CHAKOTAY: Slow it down again. A little more.
ASTRONOMER [OC]: Good friends in the Sky Ship. I call you that, hoping, at least, you're not enemies.

[Briefing room]

ASTRONOMER [OC]: There's nothing on our world that resembles your technology, so we assume you came here from a nearby planet or a distant star. Our ancient mythology describes your arrival centuries ago, coinciding with the tremors that continually shake our planet and destroy so many of our accomplishments. I hope that was never your intention, but the result is the same. Respond if you can. Or if you wish, come down from your Sky Ship and visit us.
PARIS: Well, we've got to let them know we're not doing it on purpose.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. The Prime Directive still applies. This transmission was made with primitive radio technology. They are not a warp capable civilisation.
PARIS: To hell with the Prime Directive. That man deserves an answer.
TORRES: Don't forget the temporal differential. That man has been dead for a long time.
EMH: Nearly a century by now.
PARIS: Okay, so we send a message to his great grandchildren. I'll gladly do the honours.
CHAKOTAY: Ancient mythology. That means we've already insinuated ourselves into their culture. Why not take the next step?
JANEWAY: First contact with a pre-warp society.
PARIS: We've already made first contact. They know we're up here.
JANEWAY: They've known for hundreds of years, which means our presence has been tempered by time. We've gradually become part of their mythos. Meeting us could throw that belief system into chaos.
PARIS: But we're destroying their planet. You heard him.
CHAKOTAY: A first contact, face to face, might give us information we could use to leave orbit. That would stop the damage. It's worth the risk.
JANEWAY: We don't even know if an away team could survive the transition to their time frame. Doctor, correct me if I'm wrong, but the physiological stress could be fatal.
EMH: For one of you, perhaps, but not for me. My holomatrix would be unaffected.
JANEWAY: You'd be going only as an observer. You're not to make contact.

[Bridge]

KIM: I localised the source of the transmission to a subcontinent in the southern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: The Central Protectorate?
KIM: How do you know that?
CHAKOTAY: I've been looking at the data from Astrometrics. Seven's picked up a few of their local transmissions. I can tell you the names of all twenty six states on the planet.
KIM: And all the best places to eat?
CHAKOTAY: Just about.
KIM: So is this Central Protectorate a good place to send the Doctor?
CHAKOTAY: Probably. Judging from the transmissions, they seem to have a tolerant society.
KIM: Hmm. Well, just to be on the safe side, I'll find him an isolated spot.

[Transporter room]

(Torres is adjusting the mobile emitter.)
TORRES: I'm giving you access to your facial and epidermal parameters. You should be able to mimic the appearance of whoever is down there in a matter of seconds.
EMH: What if they're big, purple blobs of protoplasm?
JANEWAY: Then you'll be the best looking blob on the planet. I'm keeping you down there for three seconds, Doctor. That will be almost two days in their time frame. Gather whatever data you can. Seismic charts, meteorological records, anything that might give us a clue about how to break orbit.
EMH: Understood.
TORRES: This will speed up the scanning rate of your programme, allow you to make the transition.
EMH: See you soon.
JANEWAY: Energising.
TORRES: One, two, three.
JANEWAY: The confinement beam is destabilising.
TORRES: It's the temporal field. We'll have to recalibrate.
JANEWAY: Every second he's down there he's in danger of being discovered.
TORRES: Locking on again.
JANEWAY: We've lost him.

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm scanning within a one hundred kilometre radius of where we sent him. Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: He could've moved across the continent by now, or to the other side of the planet.
KIM: Increasing radius to one thousand kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Have you picked up any information regarding opera houses or concert halls?
SEVEN [OC]: The cultural centre of the state runs along the shore of the eastern lake.
KIM: Got him. B'Elanna, stand by for the coordinates.
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Transporter room]

TORRES: I've reinitialised the confinement beam. It's holding.
JANEWAY: Locking on.
(The EMH is beamed back in local clothes and with his face altered to include the obligatory bridge of the nose item.)
EMH: Captain! Lieutenant! I thought I'd never see you again.
(He hugs Janeway enthusiastically.)
JANEWAY: Are you all right?
EMH: Oh, I've had a few close calls over the years, but all in all
TORRES: Years?
EMH: It's been over three, but at least I knew you hadn't left me behind. All I had to do was look up and there you were, the brightest star in the sky.
JANEWAY: Well, what do they know about us?
EMH: Only that we arrived here centuries ago. They blame us for the seismic tremors but everything else is pure speculation. And let me tell you, they like nothing better than to speculate about Voyager. Doric would go on and on. Sky Ship this, Sky Ship that.
TORRES: Doric?
EMH: The owner of the building I lived in until the war started.
JANEWAY: There was a war?
EMH: Oh, the neighbouring state decided to lob a few cannon shells at us. Our Tactical Air Command responded and a new treaty was signed in a matter of weeks, but not before my apartment was in ruins.
JANEWAY: Oh, so they have aviation technology?
EMH: They're hardly savages, Captain. In fact, they're making great strides technologically, thanks in part to Voyager.
TORRES: What do you mean?
EMH: From the moment our ship arrived in the sky, they've been trying to make contact. Our presence has encouraged invention, religion, science, art even children's toys. They're all variations on a single theme, Voyager. Mareeza even composed an aria based on the Sky Ship. I sang the lyric.
JANEWAY: Mareeza?
EMH: She was my roommate. Three years is a long time, Captain. One needs companionship.
JANEWAY: You'll get no argument from me. But did you learn anything that might help us break orbit?
EMH: It's all in here.

[Corridor]

EMH: Meteorological records for the last three hundred years. I've committed them all to memory. Some are inaccurate almanacs, but the more recent ones include detailed seismic analyses.
JANEWAY: Get that information to Astrometrics. See if you can find any pattern to the quakes. Might help us figure a way out of here.
TORRES: See you in Sickbay. I'll download the data from your programme and we'll do a little cosmetic surgery, too.
EMH: Lieutenant?
TORRES: Unless you prefer looking like that.
EMH: Of course, I completely forgot. If some of the people on the planet had their way, those weapons would be pointed at Voyager. Luckily the ship is still out of range, for now.
JANEWAY: I guess I can't blame them.
EMH: There's something of a space race going on between the various states. Who can get to the starship first with a rocket?
JANEWAY: Are we talking about a capsule with an astronaut or a missile with a warhead?
EMH: I can't answer that, but at their present rate of development, we won't have to wait very long to find out.

[Astrometrics lab]

NAOMI: How does this sound? The Weird Planet Where Time Moved Very Fast And So Did The People Who Lived There, by Naomi Wildman. That's what I'm calling my report for astronomy class. Neelix said I should choose a planet to write about, so I picked this one.
SEVEN: Your title is verbose. I suggest you try to condense it.
NAOMI: The Weird Planet.
SEVEN: Better, but it lacks precision. The Weird Planet Displaced in Time.
NAOMI: Perfect.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge. I'm transmitting my calculations directly to the helm.
JANEWAY [OC]: Acknowledged.
NAOMI: What's happening?
SEVEN: The Doctor brought back data regarding the planet's graviton field. We're using it to realign our thrusters.
NAOMI: That'll be great for my report.
JANEWAY [OC]: All hands, this is the Captain. Secure your stations and prepare to break orbit.
SEVEN: Brace yourself. Our altitude is increasing. Fifty metres. Sixty. Seven of Nine to the bridge. Our attempt to leave orbit is increasing the seismic activity. We must abort.
JANEWAY [OC]: Agreed.
NAOMI: Is the planet okay?
SEVEN: Minimal damage along the equatorial coastline. Nothing serious.
NAOMI: Seven, do you think we'll ever be able to leave?
SEVEN: Eventually.
NAOMI: I hope so. I need a way to end my report.

[Space ship]

GOTANA-RETZ: Orbital One to launch control. We're ready to ignite second stage propellants.
LAUNCH CONTROL: Proceed.
GOTANA-RETZ: Second-stage propellants depleted.
TRINA: Final stage. Ready.
GOTANA-RETZ: Ready to ignite final stage propellants. Launch Control, we are awaiting your commands to proceed. What was that?
TRINA: There's nothing wrong with the transponder.
GOTANA-RETZ: Orbital One to launch control. We are not receiving your orders.
TRINA: Everything else is working perfectly. Ignite the final stage. We have to proceed with the mission.
GOTANA-RETZ: Final stage propellants depleted.
TRINA: Initiate deceleration thrusters.
GOTANA-RETZ: Thrusters active.
TRINA: Watch your pitch angle.
GOTANA-RETZ: Correcting.
TRINA: Distance check.
GOTANA-RETZ: We're in rendezvous range.
TRINA: Rendezvous sequence locked in.
GOTANA-RETZ: Moving into final position.
TRINA: Distance check.
GOTANA-RETZ: We're within scanning range.
TRINA: Let's take a look.
GOTANA-RETZ: The scanners won't penetrate their hull.
TRINA: I guess we'll have to go inside.
GOTANA-RETZ: We're not authorised to do that.
TRINA: Our orders were to learn as much as possible about the Sky Ship. That's my intention. I saw something that looks like a transfer port. It might be a place we can dock. Move in closer.

[Jefferies tube]

TRINA: Wait, wait.
GOTANA-RETZ: Are you all right?
TRINA: A little disoriented. Let's keep going.

[Engineering]

(They force open a door, and see the crew just standing around. Wink of an Eye, anyone? Trina touches Torres' hand.)
GOTANA-RETZ: I don't understand.
TRINA: Her skin feels warm.

[Corridor]

TRINA: It might be some sort of metabolic stasis. But then why does it look like they're just going about their business?
GOTANA-RETZ: This isn't right. We shouldn't be here. We were never meant to be here.
TRINA: Try and stay calm.
GOTANA-RETZ: We've seen enough. Please, we have to leave.
TRINA: You're the best pilot we have. That's why you're on this mission. This is no different than flying your favourite
GOTANA-RETZ: Oh, it's different.
TRINA: I can't argue with that. Another few minutes, then we'll go back. This looks like their command centre.

[Bridge]

(Neelix is pouring coffee into Janeway's cup.)
GOTANA-RETZ: This is not metabolic stasis.
TRINA: Could the laws of physics be different here?
GOTANA-RETZ: Maybe they're just a little slower.
(Trina grabs her abdomen in pain.)
GOTATA-RETZ: What's wrong?
(The both collapse on floor. We return to normal time.)
TUVOK: Intruder Alert. Security team to deck one.
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a ship at docking port one. It just appeared there.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: What can you tell me.
EMH: The transition to our time frame was a little rough for them. I'm afraid his colleague didn't make it.
JANEWAY: How is he?
EMH: Recovering. Lucky for him I'm as good as his family doctor. After three years of poring over their medical journals, I know as much about their physiology as I do yours. Easy.
GOTANA-RETZ: Where's Trina?
JANEWAY: She didn't survive the transition. I'm very sorry.
GOTANA-RETZ: Transition? To your time frame?
JANEWAY: You understand what's happened to you?
GOTANA-RETZ: I'm beginning to.
JANEWAY: Voyager exists in the same space-time as the rest of the galaxy. Your planet is different.
GOTANA-RETZ: So you really haven't been watching us for centuries.
JANEWAY: Actually, we just got here, And we're hoping you can help us find a way to leave.

[Ready room]

GOTANA-RETZ: So if what you're saying is true, everyone I know, everyone I knew, is gone.
JANEWAY: That's correct.
GOTANA-RETZ: Captain, I'm an accomplished pilot. That's why they chose me for this mission. I don't have the courage of the others. They made a mistake choosing me.
JANEWAY: I have to disagree. For someone whose life has just been turned upside down, I think you're doing fine.
GOTANA-RETZ: When I was a young child, the toys hanging above my crib depicted the Sky Ship. It's the first thing I ever remember seeing, even before my mother's face. And now I'm the only one that knows its name. Voyager. I suppose it'll be the last thing I see as well.
JANEWAY: that's up to you. I have no intention of keeping you here against your will. The Doctor spent some time on your planet collecting data that we hoped would help us find a way to leave orbit. We need you to assist us in interpreting that information. However, the longer you stay on board, the more difficult it will be for you to go home. Your culture is changing every second you're here. By the time you go back, you might find it more alien than ours.
GOTANA-RETZ: (sings) Star of the night, Star of the day, Come to take my tears away. Make my life always bright. It's a child's prayer.
JANEWAY: To Voyager?
GOTANA-RETZ: Yes.
JANEWAY: I hope you're not disappointed.
GOTANA-RETZ: How often does your very first dream come true? Of course I'll help you.

[Corridor]

EMH: The information I brought back is in Voyager's database. Seven of Nine has been trying to make sense of it. She'll welcome your assistance.
GOTANA-RETZ: Mountain or Lakeside?
EMH: Mountain, of course. Don't tell me you're a Lakeside supporter.
GOTANA-RETZ: You really were on the surface.
EMH: How are they doing this season?
GOTANA-RETZ: Not good. Five wins, twelve losses.
EMH: I don't believe it! Who's guarding for them?
GOTANA-RETZ: Torelius.
EMH: Any relation to the Torelius?
GOTANA-RETZ: His grandson.
EMH: I saw the original defend for Mountain in the playoffs against Red River.
GOTANA-RETZ: That was before I was born.
EMH: He would have gone into voluntary exile after a 5-12 season.

[Astrometrics lab]

GOTANA-RETZ: This information is out of date. We were far more advanced than this when I left. I can help you correct it.
SEVEN: Very well.
GOTANA-RETZ: Let's start with the geological data. The seismic detectors back then were off by a variance of three point eight.
SEVEN: A simple conversion will compensate for that.
GOTANA-RETZ: Does every planet look like ours?
SEVEN: None that I've seen. Your world appears to be unique.
GOTANA-RETZ: If we're so out of step with everything else, we'll never be able to explore space the way you have.
SEVEN: You're a highly adaptable species. Your scientists will find a way to compensate for the temporal differential.
GOTANA-RETZ: They'd better do it before you leave. Without the Sky Ship up above them, my people might lose interest in progress. There wouldn't be anything left to reach for.
SEVEN: Perhaps they'll miss Voyager so much, they'll do everything they can to follow us.
GOTANA-RETZ: Maybe so. What was that?
SEVEN: An antimatter implosion. Your world is experimenting with warp technology. The sensors detected an early test. Another test, six weeks later, and a third. More controlled each time. They're learning quickly. (Whumph.) Too quickly.

[Bridge]

PARIS: What was that?
TUVOK: Unknown, but our shields are down to eighty two percent. Sixty four percent.
KIM: I don't know what's causing it. There's nothing on sensors.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you picking up

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: Anything in Astrometrics?
SEVEN: The inhabitants appear to have developed antimatter torpedo technology.

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: I believe we're under attack.
TUVOK: Another direct hit. Shields at forty nine percent.
GOTANA-RETZ: Captain, I apologise for this attack. They have no right.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, they've got every right.
GOTANA-RETZ: Let me talk to them.
CHAKOTAY: We've already tried to hail them. It doesn't look like they're able to receive our transmissions.
GOTANA-RETZ: They still don't know about the time differential.
TUVOK: A logical assumption. Shields down to thirty four percent.
KIM: The torpedoes are being fired at three day intervals. They're making refinements each time, increasing the detonation yield.
PARIS: Captain, isn't it time we returned fire?
CHAKOTAY: We've done enough damage to these people over the last thousand years.
JANEWAY: You've got to go back. It's the only way. Make them understand who we are. You have the specifications of this ship. Your scientists might be able to use them to help free us. At the very least, get them to hold their fire.
KIM: Captain, the transporters are offline.
JANEWAY: Is his vessel still intact?
KIM: The docking port hasn't been hit yet.
JANEWAY: Good luck.

[Corridor]

EMH: This will accelerate your metabolic functions, help you make the transition.
GOTANA-RETZ: Thank you for everything, Doctor.
EMH: It was a pleasure to treat a fellow citizen. Would you do me a favour?
GOTANA-RETZ: Certainly.
EMH: Find out what happened to a boy named Jason Tabreez. He lived in the Central Protectorate.
GOTANA-RETZ: Jason? An unusual name.
EMH: Yes. He was my son.
GOTANA-RETZ: But you're a hologram.
EMH: It's a long story. He's dead by now, but perhaps you could discover what happened to him. Maybe he had children or grandchildren. You could tell them about me.
GOTANA-RETZ: I will.

[Space ship]

(The little space capsule plummets towards the planet.)
GOTANA-RETZ: Orbital One to Launch Control, please respond. Launch Control, please respond.
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: Who is this?
GOTANA-RETZ: Pilot First Rank, Gotana-Retz.
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: Clear the channel or I'm going to report you to the command centre.
GOTANA-RETZ: Is this Launch Control?
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: I'm the weather coordinator for Station zero zero four. You're in violation of transmission regulations.
GOTANA-RETZ: Please, listen to me. I'm trying to reach Launch Control.
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: Let me guess. You finally decided to come home. You're Gotana-Retz?
GOTANA-RETZ: Gotana-Retz, yes. Now, please transfer me to Launch Control.
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: Launch Control became the Tactical Command Centre fifty years ago. You're dead.
GOTANA-RETZ: I've been inside the Sky Ship.
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: Then it's a good thing you decided to leave. They're about to shoot it down.
GOTANA-RETZ: I've got to speak with them.
WEATHER COORDINATOR [OC]: Tactical Command frequencies are classified. Now get off this channel.
GOTANA-RETZ: If you ever wanted to report more than the weather, now is your chance. Tell them to clear Central Lake of all traffic. Orbital One is coming in for a landing.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shields at twenty three percent. Seventeen percent. Shields are down.
PARIS: What was that last one?
KIM: A tricobalt device.
PARIS: What will they think of next?
TUVOK: Damage reports coming in. Imminent hull breeches on decks eight, nine and ten. Life support is failing.
JANEWAY: Our astronaut should have made it by now.
KIM: Based on his descent velocity, he landed about ten minutes ago.
CHAKOTAY: That's a year and a half.
JANEWAY: Then he must have failed.
TUVOK: I'm picking up another launch. Two massive energy signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Tricobalt devices?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Brace yourselves.
(The two devices are each as long as Voyager.)
TUVOK: We're in some kind of tractor beam.
PARIS: Captain, if I alternate thrusters I might be able to break us free.
JANEWAY: No. Let's give our friends the benefit of the doubt.
KIM: They're pulling us away from the planet.
TUVOK: We've broken orbit.
JANEWAY: Try hailing them.
(A figure solidifies.)
GOTANA-RETZ: It's good to see you all again.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like somebody down there listened to you.
GOTANA-RETZ: I'm sorry it took so long.
JANEWAY: Now we can make first contact the proper way.
GOTANA-RETZ: Unfortunately that won't be possible. A temporal compensator. It allows me to exist in your time frame without actually leaving my own, but only for a few minutes. I'm afraid it'll be a while before my people actually join the rest of the galaxy.
TUVOK: Captain, we'll be able to bring the warp drive back online in approximately two hours.
JANEWAY: Very good. Thank you.
GOTANA-RETZ: I feel like I'm saying goodbye to an old friend.
(He disappears. Down on the planet, his silver-haired self watches the bright star disappear.)


S6 E13
Virtuoso
Stardate: 53556.4
Original Airdate: 26 January 2000

Captain's log, stardate 53556.4. We've towed a damaged vessel aboard and are attempting to repair it while the Doctor treats the Qomarian crew, who have suffered minor injuries.
[Sickbay]

(The Qomar have a tiny set of ridges from the bridge of the nose to half way up their foreheads. The EMH is having issues with a small grey-haired man, who is one of four in Sickbay.)
ABARCA: Stay away.
EMH: If you don't cooperate, I can't treat you.
ABARCA: When we agreed to be examined by this ship's medical officer, we didn't know that you were a primitive computer matrix.
EMH: I assure you there is nothing primitive about me. I am programmed to perform more than five million medical procedures.
ABARCA: Does that include bloodletting?
EMH: No, but I'll be happy to add it to my repertoire.
(A young female speaks slowly and with hand gestures to the EMH.)
TINCOO: We are ready to return to our ship. Could you contact one of your superiors?
EMH: Doctor to the Captain. Please report to Sickbay.
JANEWAY [OC]: Already on my way.
(The EMH speaks slowly and clearly to Tincoo.)
EMH: The Captain is coming here now. If you want to talk to her, you can have a seat.
TINCOO: It is a very irritating programme.
ABARCA: Maybe we can disable its speech subroutines.
EMH: You're not authorised to do that!
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: How are our guests?
EMH: Their injuries are minor. Unfortunately, I can't say the same for their lack of manners.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
ABARCA: What is the status of our ship?
JANEWAY: To be honest, we're having a little trouble understanding your technology.
ABARCA: The problem is your technology. Interference from your antiquated scanning devices shut down our propulsion system.
TINCOO: Forgive us, Captain. We live in a closed system. We are not accustomed to interacting with other species, especially inferior ones.
JANEWAY: Well then, I guess we'll leave the repairs in your superior hands.
ABARCA: Our injuries will have to be treated first. Is there someone other than this hologram who could help us?
JANEWAY: No one who's better qualified.
TINCOO: Very well.
JANEWAY: Try to bear with our deficiencies just a little longer.
(Janeway rolls her eyes at the EMH and leaves.)
EMH: This way, please. (sings) I've been working on the railroad, all the live long day. I've been working on the railroad, just to pass the time away.
ABARCA: What is that?
EMH: This? A hypospray.
ABARCA: No. What you were doing.
EMH: Preparing your medication.
TINCOO: No. With your voice.
EMH: You mean singing?
TINCOO: Singing.
ABARCA: Do it again.
TINCOO: Yes, do it again.
EMH: (sings) Someone's in the kitchen with Dinah, someone's in the kitchen I know. Someone's in the kitchen with Dinah, strummin' on the old banjo and singing Fee fi fiddly i o, Fee fi fiddly i o, Fee fi fiddly i o. Strummin' on the old banjo.
TINCOO: It is a unique mathematical variation.
ABARCA: Difficult to quantify.
TINCOO: How do you suppose the algorithms are generated?
ABARCA: Maybe it's a fractal.
TINCOO: Or waveform calculus?
EMH: Do you mean to say a culture as superior as yours has never heard music of any kind?
TINCOO: There are other kinds of music?
EMH: Of course. The little ditty I just sang is an early American folk song. But countless cultures have produced thousands of types of music. Instrumental, choral, orchestral.
ABARCA: What is the purpose of this music? Is it an encryption code of some kind?
EMH: There is a mathematical component to music, but primarily it's a form of artistic expression.
TINCOO: Artistic expression?
EMH: Using sounds and images to convey ideas and emotions.
ABARCA: Why would anyone do that?
EMH: Well, to communicate their feelings.
ABARCA: Can't they do that through speech?
EMH: Yes, but music is much more expressive and entertaining.
TINCOO: You mean to say that this music is recreational?
EMH: It does have other applications. As a matter of fact, I've recently been doing some research into its therapeutic properties. But, yes, primarily we use it for enjoyment.
ABARCA: We? You mean to say others aboard your ship are capable of producing this phenomenon?
EMH: Well, maybe not with my level of expertise, but there are quite a few members of this crew who possess musical skills.
TINCOO: Maybe we judged this culture too quickly.
EMH: Our database contains the works of thousands of musicians and composers. If you'd like, I could download some selections for you.
TINCOO: Could you sing them for us?

Captain's log, supplemental. The Qomar have completed repairs to their ship and, surprisingly, have invited us to visit their system. Apparently, it's no longer closed to outsiders.

[Bridge]

(The Qomar homeworld has plenty of satellites and spacecraft.)
JANEWAY: Harry, can you make sense of any of this?
KIM: We're picking up thousands of subspace transmissions, all encrypted differently.
PARIS: Between the satellites and the spacecraft, it's like navigating an obstacle course.
CHAKOTAY: With all this traffic, the Qomar might not even know we're here.
TUVOK: Apparently, they do. We are being hailed.
TINCOO [on viewscreen]: Captain, you now have the privilege of meeting Prelate Koru.
KORU [on viewscreen]: Welcome to the Qomar Planetary Alliance.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Prelate. We're looking forward to learning more about your culture.
KORU [on viewscreen]: Our civilisation is no doubt intimidating. We'll do what we can to avoid overwhelming you during your stay.
JANEWAY: I appreciate that. I understand we're not as advanced as you, but we're fast learners, and we'd like to
KORU [on viewscreen]: We want to learn more about the algorithmic expressions you call music.
JANEWAY: We're prepared to give you complete access to our musical database, as well
KORU [on viewscreen]: Your Emergency Medical Hologram. We'd consider an exchange of technology, if you give us complete access to this device.
JANEWAY: I believe he's made some recordings.
KORU [on viewscreen]: No, not recordings.
JANEWAY: How about a recital?
KORU [on viewscreen]: Recital?
JANEWAY: A live performance. We can put together a programme of various styles of music.
KORU [on viewscreen]: Will the Emergency Medical Hologram sing?
JANEWAY: He'll be the star attraction.

[Mess hall]

(The recital is underway.)
EMH: (sings) Dio, che nell'alma infondere amor volesti e speme, desio nel core accendere Tu dei di liberta.
(The Qomar are greatly impressed.)
EMH: Thank you. You're very kind. That was a selection from the opera Don Carlos, composed by Giuseppe Verdi a towering figure in Earth's musical history. Another human musical form is called jazz, which has flourished since the early twentieth century. Mathematically, you'll find the rhythmic structures quite interesting, particularly the use of syncopation, which is said to make the music swing. You may also notice some fascinating trigonometric functions in the counterpoint, but I suppose I'm going off on a tangent, aren't I?
(The Qomar find this highly amusing.)
EMH: So, without further ado, I give you Harry Kim and the Kimtones!
(Kim's group play, but the Qomar are not fond of instrumentals.)
ABARCA: We wish to hear the Doctor.
TINCOO: Yes, the Doctor.
PARIS: Doc, they're dying up there. You've got to do something.
EMH: Pick up the tempo. (sings) That old black magic has me in its spell. That old black magic that you weave so well. Those icy fingers up and down my spine. The same old witchcraft when your eyes meet mine. The same old tingle that I feel inside. And then that elevator starts its ride, And down and down I go. Round and round I go, Like a leaf that's caught in the tide. (Later -)
PARIS: Well, if you like jazz, you're going to love rock 'n' roll. It was one of the twentieth century's greatest inventions.
ABARCA: Does the Doctor sing rock 'n' roll?
CHAKOTAY: I wouldn't say it's his favourite genre.
PARIS: No, he's more of an opera man.
ABARCA: As am I.
VINKA: Aren't you one of the musicians?
KIM: Harry Kim.
VINKA: Vinka.
KIM: Welcome aboard Voyager. Er, if you'd like to see the rest of the ship, I'd be happy to give you a tour.
VINKA: Maybe later. I was wondering if you could introduce me to the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Congratulations, Doctor, you stole the show.
EMH: Thank you, Captain, but I can't take all the credit. There was something in the air. A certain magic. It was one of those rare moments when audience and performer become one.
KORU: Doctor.
EMH: Prelate. Tincoo.
KORU: I will introduce your singing to more of our people.
EMH: I'm flattered.
KORU: You will perform on our planet.
EMH: I'd consider it an honour, but you'll have to negotiate the terms with my representative.
KORU: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: I believe the Doctor is referring to me, Prelate. Another concert would mean extending our stay. When would you want to schedule the performance?
KORU: As soon as possible.
TINCOO: The Doctor could perform in one of the lecture halls at the university.
EMH: I'm not sure a lecture hall would meet the acoustic requirements.
TINCOO: I'll help you make whatever modifications you think are necessary.
JANEWAY: Sounds like you've got yourself a booking, Doctor.

[Engineering]

EMH: I'd like to reproduce a backdrop which was used in a production of Pagliacci at Teatro de la Scala, Earth's most famous opera house.
TINCOO: It's beautiful.
EMH: Your taste in design is as refined as your taste in music.
TINCOO: We'll replicate it for you.
EMH: Excellent, but we still have the problem with the sight lines.
TORRES: What's wrong with the sight lines?
EMH: If you consider the height of the average Qomar, it's obvious that anyone seated in the back five rows will have an obstructed view.
TORRES: You're right. They won't be able to see anything but the top of your head. The glare could blind them.
EMH: You'll have to excuse Lieutenant Torres. Her appreciation of music is limited to a smattering of Klingon drinking songs. We'll have to increase the rake of the floor by five degrees.
TORRES: You really think they're going to redesign an entire building just to appeal to your vanity?
EMH: Vanity has nothing to do with it, Lieutenant. I'm concerned about my audience.
TINCOO: We are prepared to make whatever changes the Doctor thinks are necessary.
EMH: Thank you, Tincoo. While we're at it, Lieutenant, I'll need some help with my wardrobe.
TORRES: I'm an Engineer, not a costume designer.
EMH: I'd like you to make an adjustment to my mobile emitter that will allow me to make quick changes between songs.
TINCOO: That sounds exciting.
EMH: Oh, it will be. I plan to segue from Don Juan to Rigoletto in the blink of an eye. It will be a triumph of
TORRES: Arrogance and self-absorption? Just trying to help.
TINCOO: Your crewmates don't seem to appreciate your abilities.
EMH: You've noticed that too?
TINCOO: That must be very frustrating for you.
EMH: You have no idea.

[Backstage]

TINCOO: We'll be starting in two minutes.
EMH: I'd better get into costume.
(He taps at his mobile emitter and is now dressed as Canio the clown.)
EMH: How do I look?
TINCOO: You look perfect.
EMH: I wish I had a subroutine to eliminate pre-show jitters.
TINCOO: I could help you add one to your programme.
EMH: You're very sweet. I'm just a little nervous.
TINCOO: Why?
EMH: I'm about to expose your entire culture to music for the first time. The responsibility is enormous.
TINCOO: Your performance tonight will be transmitted to hundreds of millions of people.
EMH: Is that supposed to help me relax?
(The house lights go down.)
TINCOO: It's time.
(The curtain goes up, and the EMH steps forward onto the stage. He is welcomed with warm applause.)

[Bridge]

(The ship goes to red alert.)
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: I didn't order Red alert, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well, someone did.
KIM: The command originated in Astrometrics.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to the Captain. I've found evidence that the Qomar are attempting to sabotage Voyager.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: What have you got?
SEVEN: I believe the Qomar are attempting to disable our comm. system.
JANEWAY: How?
SEVEN: By overloading it with millions of teraquads of irrelevant data.
JANEWAY: What do you mean by irrelevant?
(Seven puts them up on the big screen.)
JANEWAY: They're transmissions, all addressed to the Doctor.
SEVEN: Precisely. I've only been able to decipher a small fraction of them so far, but they include invitations to social and scientific functions, requests for personal encounters, and cloying tributes to the Doctor's talents.
JANEWAY: Computer, stand down Red alert. This isn't sabotage, Seven. This is fan mail.
SEVEN: Fan mail?
JANEWAY: People who admire performers are called fans.
SEVEN: The word, I believe, derives from fanatic.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
SEVEN: Why would the Doctor inspire fanaticism among the Qomar?
JANEWAY: Music is new to them. Clearly, they're very excited about it.
SEVEN: This glorification of the individual is irrational. The Doctor is merely reproducing the work of others. Why do his fans fixate solely on him?
JANEWAY: I suppose he's the embodiment of what they admire. He can do something they can't. That makes him special.
SEVEN: Perhaps, but that doesn't explain their interest in the minutiae of the Doctor's life. What does he do in his spare time? To how many decimal places can he calculate pi? This one wants to know his favourite quadratic equation.
JANEWAY: People have always fantasised about knowing celebrities personally. I suppose it's a way of making themselves feel more important.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: We have a security problem on deck two.
JANEWAY: On my way. Just think, Seven. As personal friends of the Doctor, we're the envy of millions of Qomar.

[Corridor]

(The corridor is filled with chattering Qomar.)
TUVOK: Our efforts to accommodate them have gotten out of hand.
JANEWAY: I guess their interest in the Doctor is greater than we expected.
TUVOK: Much greater. I recommend we refuse all further requests for transport from the surface.
JANEWAY: Agreed.
TUVOK: And we should evacuate these visitors immediately. They're interfering with normal ship's functions.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, when have functions aboard this ship ever been normal?

[Mess hall]

HOLO-EMH: Dio, che nell'alma infondere amor volesti e speme
EMH + HOLO-EMH: Desio nel core accendere tu dei di liberta.
(The EMH is behind a table, wearing a silk coat. He has a queue of fans in front of him.)
EMH: Thank you for coming. Please accept this eight by ten by four singing replica of me.
NEELIX: One at a time, one at a time. Now, please, do not touch the Doctor's mobile emitter. Captain, isn't this exciting?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure that's the word I'd use for it. Excuse me. Sorry, excuse me.
EMH: I'm sorry, Captain, but you'll have to wait your turn like everybody else.
JANEWAY: I'm not here for an autograph. We need to talk.
(They move away from the queue.)
JANEWAY:  I'm glad you're enjoying yourself Doctor, but this is getting a little excessive.
EMH: I'm only doing what I can to ensure that first contact with the Qomar goes smoothly.
JANEWAY: Does that include using our replicator reserves to create miniaturised versions of yourself?
EMH: I would never do such a thing. As a matter of fact, the Qomar have devoted an entire holo-processing plant to manufacturing them for me.
JANEWAY: I see. Well in any case, you've been neglecting your Sickbay duties. I haven't received a report in three days.
EMH: Oh, come now, Kathryn. It's not as though there's been a flood of medical emergencies.
JANEWAY: I wasn't aware we were on a first name basis.
EMH: I, I meant Captain. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Oh, that's perfectly all right, Doctor, or do you prefer Maestro?
EMH: Oh, please. Either is acceptable.
JANEWAY: Well, then, let me make it clear to both of you. Maestro, you're finished for today. Doctor, report to Sickbay. Now.

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Well, well, well. If it isn't the wandering minstrel.
EMH: What's the nature of their medical emergencies?
PARIS: Apparently, these two young ladies became dizzy and disoriented while waiting in line to see you.
EMH: I'll take over from here.
PARIS: Be careful, Doc. You seem to be hazardous to the Qomars' health.
VINKA: I'm Vinka.
AZEN: I'm Azen.
EMH: Hmm. Neither of you appears to be ill.
VINKA: We wanted to meet you in a more intimate setting.
AZEN: So we told your security officer we were sick.
EMH: Sickbay is for medical treatment only. I'm afraid you'll have to leave.
VINKA: But there's so much about you we want to know.
AZEN: Yes, you're a very stimulating hologram.
EMH: If you're here for a replica, they're available in the mess hall.
AZEN: We don't want a replica.
VINKA: We want the full sized version.
EMH: I'm flattered, really, but if you don't leave now I'll have to call Security.
VINKA: I'll bet you can calculate pi to over a thousand digits.
EMH: Security to Sickbay.
AZEN: Have you ever balanced simultaneous equations?
EMH: Computer, deactivate Emergency Medical Hologram.

[On stage]

TINCOO: Here you are.
EMH: I needed to find some peace and quiet.
TINCOO: I want to show you something.
EMH: What's this?
TINCOO: You inspired me to create my own musical composition. It's based on the intersection of two fractals.
EMH: Tincoo, this is extraordinary.
TINCOO: I created it for you.
EMH: I don't know what to say.
TINCOO: Will you sing it?
EMH: I'm not sure I can. It's very complex. The melody's lovely, but some of these notes are well beyond the human vocal range.
TINCOO: You are not human.
EMH: No, but
TINCOO: I can help you reconfigure your vocal processors.
EMH: I don't think there's time. My last concert's tomorrow.
TINCOO: Why does it have to be your last concert?
EMH: Because Voyager is scheduled to depart.
TINCOO: Stay here with us.
EMH: I have responsibilities on Voyager.
TINCOO: They're a resourceful crew. I'm certain they will find a way to compensate for your absence.
EMH: I'm not so sure about that. But even if they could, Voyager's the only life I've ever known. The crew are my friends.
TINCOO: But they don't appreciate you the way we do. You know that. You could have a new life here as a performer, surrounded by people who admire and respect your talent.
EMH: It's very tempting, but
TINCOO: By any mathematical standard, the medical care of a hundred and fifty people cannot compare to the cultural enrichment of millions.
EMH: You can't always explain things with an equation, Tincoo.
TINCOO: What about the simplest equation of them all? One plus one.
EMH: I don't understand.
TINCOO: The time you have been here has been the most stimulating of my life.
EMH: I feel the same way about my time with you.
TINCOO: Then stay here with me.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: You're resigning your commission?
EMH: I've been asked to stay.
JANEWAY: When this all started, I thought you might have a little harmless fun, and that you'd be responsible enough to keep it in perspective. I can see now that I was mistaken.
EMH: This isn't harmless fun for me, Captain. It's a once in a lifetime opportunity to realise a dream.
JANEWAY: What about your duty to Voyager?
EMH: I take that very seriously, but
JANEWAY: You're a part of this ship.
EMH: You sound as if you're talking about a piece of equipment.
JANEWAY: That's not what I meant.
EMH: Then shouldn't I be given the same respect as any flesh and blood member of this crew?
JANEWAY: Every member of this crew is expected to fulfil his obligations.
EMH: If Harry Kim met an alien woman on an away mission, fell in love, and decided to spend the rest of his life with her, raise a family instead of continuing on this journey, you wouldn't stand in his way.
JANEWAY: You're not Harry Kim. You're an Emergency Medical Hologram.
EMH: Then you do see me as a piece of technology.
JANEWAY: I have given you extraordinary freedom, to explore your creativity, to go on away missions, to pursue personal relationships, but enough is enough.
EMH: Why? Because you don't see me as an equal, and you never have. Admit it.
JANEWAY: I am responsible for the medical needs of this crew. If I let you leave, what kind of captain would I be?
EMH: Every other Starfleet officer chose to be here, but I never had a choice, until now. I've given this crew everything for five years. Isn't it worth anything? Haven't I earned the right to self-determination? You've lost other systems before and always managed to find a solution. You'll manage without me.
JANEWAY: What about you? Will you manage without us?
EMH: The Qomar are a technologically advanced species. I have no doubt that my maintenance requirements will be met.
JANEWAY: Now which one of us is looking at you as a piece of technology? I'm not talking about your maintenance needs. I'm talking about your emotional needs. You've got people on this ship who care about you.
EMH: The Qomar certainly seem to care about me.
JANEWAY: And when their tastes change?
EMH: What makes you think that's going to happen?
JANEWAY: Fame is often temporary.
EMH: This isn't just about fame.
JANEWAY: Oh, really?
EMH: If you must know, there's a woman involved. One who appreciates me in a way no one on this crew ever has.
JANEWAY: Well, it sounds like you'll have everything you need.
EMH: I believe I will.
JANEWAY: I hope so, Doctor. Because once Voyager's gone, you won't be able to change your mind.
EMH: That's a risk I'm willing to take.
JANEWAY: As your Captain, I should refuse this resignation. But as your friend, it wouldn't be right to stand in your way.

[Sickbay]

EMH: And you can't let the Captain ignore her health. She's notorious for finding any excuse to miss her appointments.
PARIS: I'll send her weekly reminders.
EMH: And when Mister Neelix becomes convinced that he's suffering from the Toluncan ague, which he does every flu season, don't argue with him, just give him a placebo.
PARIS: Doc, I've been assisting you for three years. I know the drill.
EMH: Yes, I suppose you do. Remember, I'll be within comm. range for at least another month, so if any problems should arise.
PARIS: Doc, you're not really going to do this, are you?
EMH: I would have thought you of all people would be glad to see me go.
PARIS: Are you kidding? Who am I going to torment after you're gone?
EMH: Well, I've got some more goodbyes. I'll check in with you before I leave.
PARIS: I'll be here, redecorating your office.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: Hello, Seven. I wanted to see you before I left. I've downloaded some social lessons we haven't covered yet. There are seventeen new chapters.
SEVEN: Does one of them include instructions for ending a friendship?
EMH: Our friendship's not over, Seven.
SEVEN: It will be difficult to maintain if we never see each other again.
EMH: I know it'll be hard for you when I'm gone.
SEVEN: I will adapt.
EMH: Yes, I suppose you will. But it'll be hard for me.
SEVEN: Why? You're getting everything you've ever wanted.
EMH: I thought you'd be the first one to understand my desire to grow as an individual.
SEVEN: What I don't understand is why you can't do that aboard Voyager.
EMH: I feel I've accomplished all I can here. Oh, there's the occasional medical mystery that challenges my programming, but mostly it's become routine. And frankly, I feel my talents are often taken for granted. But when I'm standing on that stage performing, and I see those rapt faces in the audience, I feel I finally know what it's like to be made of flesh and blood.
SEVEN: You simply crave attention, applause, fan mail.
EMH: What if I do?
SEVEN: Those things are irrelevant.
EMH: To you, maybe. But to me, it makes me feel appreciated, even loved. Not for what I've been programmed to do, but for who I've become.
KIM [OC]: Doctor, you're receiving a transmission.
EMH: Route it to Cargo Bay two.
TINCOO [OC]: Doctor, this is Tincoo. I want to see you immediately. I have something to show you.
EMH: What is it?
TINCOO [OC]: A surprise. I think you'll be very pleased.
EMH: I'll beam down as soon as I can. Seven.
SEVEN: You shouldn't keep your fans waiting.

[Tincoo's lab]

TINCOO: Thank you for being so prompt.
EMH: Of course. What's the surprise?
TINCOO: I had an inspiration.
EMH: Another musical composition?
TINCOO: Better.
(She calls up a holographic Qomar EMH.)
EMH: What's this?
TINCOO: I've solved all our problems.
EMH: I wasn't aware that we had any.
TINCOO: Well, you were reluctant to leave your ship, and you also doubted your ability to sing my composition, so I created a superior holomatrix.
EMH: I don't understand.
TINCOO: It's simple. Now you can stay aboard Voyager, and he can sing for us. Listen.
(The new holomatrix can cover many more octaves than the EMH.)
EMH: You can't make a superior singer simply by creating a new matrix.
QOMAR HOLOGRAM: I beg to differ. My vocal processors are enhanced with polyphonic sequencers. I am not only capable of singing notes well beyond your limited range, I can produce multi-harmonic overtones through the use of amplitude vacilla
(The EMH turns him off.)
TINCOO: Why did you do that?
EMH: Tincoo, music is more than mathematics. And I am much more than a programme with musical subroutines. All of my experience, all of my passion, goes into every note that I sing. When you listen to me, when my singing moves you, you're not just hearing notes. You're hearing my artistry. My soul.
TINCOO: I've duplicated that, too.
EMH: I thought you wanted me.
TINCOO: I did, but now I've developed a far more sophisticated piece of technology.
EMH: Technology.
TINCOO: I thought you would be pleased. You seemed reluctant to leave your ship.
EMH: You told me that the time you had spent with me was the most stimulating of your life.
TINCOO: It was. You inspired me to do my greatest work.
EMH: But I thought
TINCOO: Yes?
EMH: That you and I
TINCOO: What?
EMH: Well, I suppose I'm no longer on the bill tomorrow.
TINCOO: Of course you are. It will be your farewell performance.
EMH: Of course.

[Medical lab]

(The EMH is trying to reach the top notes of his rival.)
TORRES: You wanted to see me?
EMH: I need your clearance code to delete my medical database.
TORRES: You sure you want to do that? If you give one of your fans a heart attack you won't be able to resuscitate him.
EMH: I need more space in my matrix.
TORRES: For what?
EMH: To expand my musical subroutines so that I can sing this composition.
TORRES: Well, I'm surprised you're asking me for help. I recall your saying that my appreciation for music was limited to a smattering of Klingon drinking songs.
EMH: Please, B'Elanna, I'm asking you as a friend. Everything depends on this.
TORRES: What's so important about this composition?
EMH: Tincoo wrote it for me.
TORRES: Your girlfriend?
EMH: I wouldn't call her that.
TORRES: Don't tell me you two had a fight.
EMH: Let's just say she doesn't appreciate me quite as much as I thought she did. But that will all change. Once I perform this, she will see me for the artist I truly am.
TORRES: Look, Doc, I don't know anything about this woman or why she doesn't appreciate you, and I may not be an expert on music, but I'm a pretty good engineer. I can expand your musical subroutines all you like. I can even reprogramme you to be a whistling teapot. But, if I do that, it won't be you anymore.

[On stage]

(The EMH is in a simple evening suit.)
EMH: Tonight, I was planning to perform a song composed by one of your own people. When you consider she heard music for the first time only a few days ago, it's an extraordinary accomplishment. But although it's a very beautiful composition, I'm afraid it's beyond my abilities. So instead, I'm going to sing an old Neapolitan ballad. It's a song about lost love. (sings) Sotto la grónda della torre antica, una róndine amica a lo sbocciar del almondo or lui tornata. Ritorni tutti l'anni sempre alla stessa data, monti e mari sa varca per tornar. Solo amore quando fugenda lontana sper invano, ma non torni piu. Sper invano ma non torna piu.
(That was Rondine al nido by Vincenzo de Crescenzo. It receives polite applause, and Janeway wipes away a tear. The EMH leaves the stage.)
TINCOO: Thank you, Doctor. That was fascinating. It is because of your inspiration that I can now present to you a new and exciting musical programme. A singing holographic matrix designed specifically to extend the range of humanoid vocal capabilities, singing my own musical composition.
(The Qomar holomatrix takes the stage and performs the sound composition. Its multi-tonal section complete with whistling kettle receives applause from the Qomar, and leaves the humans completely nonplussed.)

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
EMH: Good morning, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's this?
EMH: A formal request to be reinstated.
JANEWAY: So you've taken off your tails and put them between your legs.
EMH: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You offended a lot of people who care about you.
EMH: I know. I was a fool. I'm sorry. And I'm willing to do whatever I can to rectify the situation. Starting with the deletion of all my musical subroutines.
JANEWAY: Permission denied.
EMH: But, Captain
JANEWAY: No buts, Doctor. You're expected to follow orders just like every other flesh and blood member of this crew. Resume your normal activities. All of them.
EMH: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Doctor's office]

(The EMH plays one of his souvenir mini-holograms, then cuts it off mid-note and tosses it into a waste bin.)
EMH: Oh, Seven, I didn't see you. I suppose you've come to gloat.
SEVEN: I have something for you.
EMH: What is it?
SEVEN: Fan mail.
EMH: Delete it. I don't want to read another word.
SEVEN: Then I'll read it for you.
EMH: Seven.
SEVEN: Dear Doctor. I regret that your last performance was not as successful as you'd hoped. There are still those who appreciate your unique talents and admire you as an individual. I'll always consider myself your loyal fan.
EMH: Who's it from?
SEVEN: It's signed Seven of Nine, Tertiary Adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
(The EMH takes the PADD and she leaves. He gets up and walks into Sickbay.)
EMH: (sings) I've been working on the railroad, All the livelong day. I've been working on the railroad, Just to pass the time away. Can't you hear the whistle blowing? Rise up so early in the morn.


S6 E14
Memorial
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 2 February 2000

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: Who left their dirty plate in the replicator? Tom?
PARIS: It wasn't me.
KIM: It's a biohazard.
PARIS: Take it easy. We'll decontaminate you when we get back home.
KIM: If I ever volunteer for a two week away mission again, would somebody please confine me to Sickbay?
CHAKOTAY: Too much togetherness for you, Harry?
KIM: Nothing personal, Commander.
NEELIX: To tell you the truth, I've enjoyed our little junket together. It's given the four of us a chance to bond.
KIM: The bonding stopped when the sonic shower went offline.
NEELIX: That's all part of the experience, the adventure. Think of the great explorers that came before us. They survived without creature comforts.
KIM: I wouldn't want to bunk with them, either.
PARIS: Now there's a sight for sore eyes.
(Voyager is ahead.)
CHAKOTAY: Delta Flyer to Voyager. We're on our approach.
JANEWAY [OC]: We've kept a candle burning in the window for you.
PARIS: Forget the candles, break out the champagne.
JANEWAY [OC]: I take it the mission was a success?
PARIS: Fifteen planets scanned in fourteen days. We've got a cargo hold overflowing with dilithium ore.
JANEWAY [OC]: That's the kind of news I like to hear.

[Corridor]

EMH: The explorers return.
(Paris gets a kiss from Torres.)
TORRES: Welcome home.
PARIS: I should go away more often.
KIM: I'm not going away for a long, long time.
TORRES: Homesick, Harry?
KIM: Let's just say I'm looking forward to a hot shower and a comfortable bed.
EMH: Don't forget to stop by Sickbay for your check-up.
PARIS: Check-up? For what?
EMH: Away team protocol. Crew members are required to submit to a physical if the mission lasts more than two weeks. Now, who's first?
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you know in the morning, Doctor.
(They all head off down different corridors.)
EMH: Why put off till tomorrow what you can do today? Commander? Mister Paris?
(Further on.)
TORRES: I've been working on a little surprise for you.
PARIS: Oh? Naughty, or nice?
TORRES: Close your eyes.
PARIS: I like it already.

[Paris' quarters]

TORRES: Come on. So what do you think?
PARIS: Oh! A television set.
TORRES: Circa 1956. I replicated the components, but I assembled it myself. This is the remote control. You select what you want to watch by pressing this button.
(A simple remote with just four buttons.)
PARIS: A slight problem. There were no remote controls in the 1950's.
TORRES: I took a little poetic license.
PARIS: Cartoon!
TORRES: I found them in the ship's database.
(He changes channels.)
TV: Vacuum Action! Mop, mop, don't stop
PARIS: What's that?
TORRES: That is called a jingle. According to the research I did, they inserted them into the entertainment programs. I know, it's confusing, but I kept them in for authenticity. I even replicated popcorn.
PARIS: Everything is perfect except for one tiny detail.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: You forgot the beer.
TORRES: I can fix that.
(Paris switches back to the old cartoon, Daffy Duck and the Dinosaur.)
TORRES: You didn't miss much while you were away. The Doctor gave a lecture on insects indigenous to the Delta Quadrant.
PARIS: Ah ha.
TORRES: It was pretty boring, until Ensign Farley started snoring and then no one could keep a straight face. Of course, the Doctor wasn't at all amused.
PARIS: Ooo! Hockey!
TORRES: It was a shame that we had to cut the lecture short, but the warp core overloaded and then the Borg invaded and we were all assimilated.
PARIS: Mmm hmm.
TORRES: You haven't heard a single thing I've said, have you?
PARIS: Oh! Look at that!
TORRES: Maybe this was a bad idea.
(Later, Paris is on to The Untouchables. Torres has fallen asleep on the couch.)
TV: This is Eliot Ness. Come out, we don't want any trouble!
(During a gun fight, the picture changes to a different set of people under fire.)
TV: We're under attack. Stay down. Keep moving. Somebody cover me.
(Paris tries changing channels, but the show remains the same. He goes for the final resort, manual controls, before hitting the set. Then he sees that one of the combatants is himself.)
TV: We need a medic over here. Stay down. Move it. Stay low.

[Battlefield]

SOLDIER [OC]: I said hold your fire!
SOLDIER 2 [OC]: I need a medic.
(Paris checks on some nearby bodies.)
SOLDIER [OC]: Keep moving.
(Paris gets shot in the upper left arm.)
TORRES [OC]: Tom?

[Paris' quarters]

(Paris is lying on the floor.)
TORRES: Tom? Tom. (he wakes) It must have been one hell of a dream.
(The Untouchables is back on the television set.)
PARIS: I was, I was in the middle of a battlefield. I was grazed right, right here. They always said television was a bad influence.
TORRES: How about a nice cartoon? That should chase away the nightmare.
PARIS: No! No, I think I've had enough.
(In a Jefferies tube, Kim hears sounds of battle. The hatch recedes from him, and he feels dizzy. He drops the instrument he is holding and crawls on his elbows towards the hatch. Panting, he opens it and gets out into a larger junction.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: It sounds like you had an anxiety attack.
KIM: I've never been claustrophobic before.
EMH: There's a first time for everything.
KIM: Do you know what could have caused it?
EMH: Let's see. You spend two weeks on an away mission, working eighteen hour days, then as soon as you return to Voyager you become Ensign Eager, back on duty and raring to go.
KIM: I had work to do. There was a plasma leak on deck five.
EMH: Plasma leak or no plasma leak, you're suffering from exhaustion. I'm recommending you take the next two days off.
KIM: But I
EMH: I can always make it three.
KIM: You win. I guess I am pretty tired.

[Mess hall]

(A kettle whistles, and Neelix nearly jumps out of his skin whilst holding a large knife. Then he sees what it is and takes it off the stove.)
NAOMI: Welcome back.
NEELIX: Oh, hello.
NAOMI: Did you have a good trip?
NEELIX: Wonderful, thank you.
NAOMI: You look tired.
NEELIX: Do I? Just a little shuttle lag. Don't you have a geometry lesson? You don't want to keep your teacher waiting.
NAOMI: Seven of Nine assigned me a special project. I'm supposed to build a tetragon but I have to use everyday things. I'm not allowed to use a replicator. I was thinking about using some vegetables from the airponics bay. Carrots and celery? Neelix?
NEELIX: Carrots and celery. A good idea.
NAOMI: Will you help me?
NEELIX: I don't think I'll have time today.
NAOMI: Tonight?
NEELIX: I don't think that I'll have time then either. Lot of work to do.
NAOMI: Then why don't I help you? What's cooking? (she touches a hot pan lid) Ouch!
NEELIX: Let me see your hand!
NAOMI: I'm okay.
NEELIX: Your hand! We've got to get you to Sickbay.
NAOMI: I'm fine.
NEELIX: Sickbay!
(Some crew enter the mess hall, laughing.)
NEELIX: Get down. Stay behind me.
NAOMI: What?
NEELIX: I said get down!

[Forest]

(The battle continues amongst the trees at night.)
SOLDER [OC]: I'm hit!
SOLDIER 2 [OC]: Someone help me with this, please
SOLDIER 3 [OC]: Keep moving. Move out to the left contingent.
CHAKOTAY: Try not to move.
DYING COLONIST: Get away from me.
CHAKOTAY: I can help you.
DYING COLONIST: I don't want your help.
CHAKOTAY: Hold your fire. I said, hold your fire!
SOLDIER ONE: We're under attack, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Saavdra, where is he?
YOUNG SOLDIER: I think he's at base.
SOLDIER [OC]: Let's move out.
CHAKOTAY: We were supposed to evacuate the colony, not destroy it!
SAAVDRA: That was before the Nakan started shooting.
CHAKOTAY: They're civilians!
SAAVDRA: Civilians with particle weapons.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Commander Chakotay.

[Chakotay's quarters]

TUVOK [OC]: Commander, please respond.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: We have a security breach in the mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: I'm on my way.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Tell them to call off the attack.
TUVOK: Put down your weapon, Neelix. Let us help you.
NEELIX: Stay away! I won't let you hurt her! Get back!
(Neelix shoots at a security guard trying to enter through one door. Chakotay enters through the other and ducks down.)
TUVOK: He appears to be hallucinating.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, this is Commander Chakotay. Let Naomi go. No one's going to hurt her. That's an order.
NEELIX: No! Not until Saavdra's called off his attack.
TUVOK: There's a back entrance to the galley. If you can distract him, perhaps I
CHAKOTAY: I want to try something first. Neelix, listen to me. It's okay, Saavdra ordered a cease-fire. The colony's secure. The battle is over.
NEELIX: Why do I still hear weapons fire?
CHAKOTAY: It's just a few soldiers. They're celebrating. The battle's over.
NAOMI: Neelix, please.
CHAKOTAY: I'll protect Naomi.
NEELIX: How do I know you won't trick me?
CHAKOTAY: Because I'm on your side. I want to end this conflict as much as you do. Let her go. It's safe now. The killing's over.
(Neelix lets Naomi run to Chakotay, then hands him his phaser. Neelix clings to Chakotay as he takes him away.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: I gave him a mild sedative.
JANEWAY: Any idea what caused the delusions?
EMH: His norepinephrine levels are three times what they should be. Neurochemically speaking, he's suffering from a form of post-traumatic stress syndrome.
CHAKOTAY: I dreamed I was fighting in an alien war. The same war Neelix seemed to be reliving.
EMH: Harry Kim was in earlier. He had an anxiety attack. I haven't spoken with Mister Paris yet.
JANEWAY: Three members of the same away team. Did you run into any kind of trouble while you were gone?
CHAKOTAY: None. The mission was by the book.
EMH: Your engramatic activities contradict that, Commander. These are real memories, not mere dreams or hallucinations.
JANEWAY: Maybe you were abducted, manipulated into fighting. Our memories have been tampered with before. We're going to retrace your mission. Start reviewing the Delta Flyer's sensor logs. See if you come up with anything unusual. How long before Neelix is back on his feet?
EMH: I can wake him now, if you'd like.  
JANEWAY: Do it. Each of you seems to hold a piece of the puzzle. Let's see if we can start putting them together.

[Briefing room]

PARIS: I don't remember much, just bits and pieces. I dreamt I was on a planet in the middle of a battle. I have no idea how I got there. I can't remember.
KIM: When I was in the Jefferies tube I heard weapons fire, screams. People were screaming. I got so frightened.
JANEWAY: Of what?
KIM: I, I don't know.
PARIS: I remember getting shot.
EMH: There's no evidence of a wound.
CHAKOTAY: If our memories were wiped, our physical injuries could have been masked as well.
JANEWAY: Do any of you recall who you were fighting?
NEELIX: It was dark. I couldn't see them very well.
PARIS: They were firing at us.
NEELIX: The Nakaa. The Nakana.
KIM: The Nakan. They were called the Nakan.
PARIS: Right. Right. They, they lived in a remote colony. We were trying to evacuate them.
NEELIX: But they were fighting us.
KIM: Why couldn't they just do what they were told?
NEELIX: We had no right to be there!
KIM: It was for their own good.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, stay focused. You said you were trying to evacuate their colony. Why?
PARIS: Those were our orders.
EMH: Who gave them?
CHAKOTAY: Saavdra.
PARIS: Commander Saavdra.
KIM: He was in charge of our unit. We were part of an attack force.
JANEWAY: You were coerced.
PARIS: No. No, I volunteered. We all did.
EMH: I find that difficult to believe. You were obviously manipulated somehow.
NEELIX: No. No, no, no, no, I remember now. We held a briefing to plan the evacuation. You were there, Commander. Mister Paris.
PARIS: It was a command post. 
KIM: That's right. It was night, oh two hundred hours.
CHAKOTAY: We'd been awake for days. We were exhausted.

[Command post]

SAAVDRA: What do our spotters report?
KIM: The Nakan are unarmed. They won't put up a fight.
SAAVDRA: Once we've disabled their shield generators, we'll deploy units five and six. They may be unarmed, but they won't be happy to see us. Don't provoke them. I want to come out of this with zero casualties on both sides.
SOLDIER ONE: Understood.
PARIS: The perimeter's the weakest in sector fourteen. The terrain's very flat.
NEELIX: It's an ideal landing spot for transports.
SAAVDRA: Once we've secured the village, take the colonists there. Get them aboard. Do your best to reassure them. Make them understand that this is a temporary relocation. That they're going to be back there in a few weeks. Understood?
NEELIX: Aye, aye, sir.
SAAVDRA: Problem?
CHAKOTAY: Just one. This unit could use a little sleep. I suggest we wait until daybreak.
SAAVDRA: I promised Command we'd have this colony secured today.
CHAKOTAY: It can wait a few hours.
SAAVDRA: I'm sorry. But when this mission's over, how does a week on Toranius Prime sound?
CHAKOTAY: Never been there.
SAAVDRA: Compared to this place, it's paradise.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: The mission proceeded as planned. We disabled their shield generators and entered the colony.
KIM: We were rounding up the Nakan. To be honest, I expected them to give us a little more trouble.
NEELIX: But then we came to the last enclosure. Do you remember the last enclosure? It was empty. Where were they? They were supposed to be there.
PARIS: Twenty four colonists unaccounted for. We thought the spotters had made a mistake. We should have known something was wrong. We should have gotten out then.

[Enclosure]

(Colonist are being walked out.)
YOUNG SOLDIER: This way. Stay in line. Keep moving.
CHAKOTAY: Evacuation detail to base. We're ready for transport.
SAAVDRA [OC]: Transport's on approach.
FEMALE COLONIST: I have to find my husband.
PARIS: Don't worry. He'll be on one of the transports.
FEMALE COLONIST: Which one?
PARIS: I don't know, but we'll find him.
(Weapons fire.)
CHAKOTAY: Everybody down! Base, we're under attack. Repeat. We're under attack!

[Briefing room]

PARIS: Those missing colonists, they were armed. They fired the first shots. It wasn't our fault!
CHAKOTAY: We can't be sure of that. It could have been one of our own people. Fatigue. A phaser malfunction. You just don't know!
NEELIX: Either way, it doesn't justify what we did.
JANEWAY: What did you do? What happened down there?

[Enclosure]

CHAKOTAY: Keep moving. Stay together. Hold your fire!
NEELIX: Stay down!
(The colonists panic and run.)
CHAKOTAY: Stay together.
KIM: Stop running. Stop!
NEELIX: Get down! Get down, get down, get down! Stop running! Stop running!
(The colonists get shot in the back.)

[Briefing room]

KIM: We didn't have any other choice.
CHAKOTAY: Like hell we didn't.
KIM: They were wiping us out!
CHAKOTAY: That didn't give us the right to murder civilians.
NEELIX: I tried to protect the children, but I couldn't stop them from running away.
KIM: I ran too. Sounds of phaser fire. People shouting. I had to get out of there.

[Cavern]

(Kim crawls through a narrow tunnel in to the cavern. There is a kettle on a stove, and some food on a plate. He hears a noise and knocks over a wall of barrels to reveal two people, a woman and her elderly father.)
WOMAN: Please, don't hurt us.
KIM: Move where I can see you! Move!
WOMAN: Please, please, he's no threat to you.
KIM: Tell me how I can get out of these tunnels and I'll leave you alone. Tell me!
WOMAN: Go back the way you came. At the second fork take the tunnel to your left. Follow it to the end. It will lead you to the river.
(The old man moves forward. Kim opens fire.)

[Briefing room]

KIM: He was going to kill me.
PARIS: Easy, Harry.
KIM: They wouldn't listen! Why? Why wouldn't they listen?
CHAKOTAY: We killed eighty two civilians that night. No one was left alive.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've entered the system where the away team conducted its recent survey, hoping to find an explanation for their memories of the Nakan massacre.

[Paris' quarters]

(Doorbell. Paris is lying on the sofa.)
PARIS: Yeah. Yeah!
TORRES: Missed you at breakfast.
PARIS: I wasn't hungry.
TORRES: Sleep a little?
PARIS: Five, six minutes.
TORRES: I found another episode of The Untouchables. Elliot Ness captures somebody named Al Caypone.
PARIS: Capone. Maybe later.
TORRES: Well, you've got to eat something. Pizza?
PARIS: Look, I appreciate what you're trying to do, but I'd rather just be alone.
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: No. I don't want to be comforted right now.
TORRES: I know the last few days have been difficult.
PARIS: Difficult. Difficult doesn't quite cover it. I helped murder eighty two innocent people.
TORRES: You don't know that.
PARIS: I know what I remember.
TORRES: The Doctor says your memories could have been altered.
PARIS: I was there! When I close my eyes, I can see the bodies. I, I can hear the weapons fire. I can feel where I was shot.
TORRES: Then why isn't there evidence of a wound?
PARIS: I don't know!
TORRES: All I'm asking is that you consider the possibility that this didn't happen. We'll keep investigating. There are sensor readings on the Delta Flyer that we haven't even analysed yet.
PARIS: I can't concentrate on sensor readings right now.
TORRES: Try.
PARIS: I can't! Stop pushing me! I don't want your help!
(Torres turns to leave.)
PARIS: I'm sorry.
TORRES: You know where to find me.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: This was your first stop on the away mission. A class M planet with one natural satellite.
JANEWAY: Did you send anyone to the surface?
CHAKOTAY: No, we only scanned for dilithium deposits. We were in orbit for less than an hour.
JANEWAY: Next.
SEVEN: You came into contact with this vessel en route to your second destination.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Bathar of Hodos.
JANEWAY: Photogenic.
CHAKOTAY: He's a merchant. Claimed to have a formula that stops the aging process.
JANEWAY: Oh, you didn't happen to buy any, did you?
CHAKOTAY: It was only a tripolymer enzyme. It makes a great shoe polish though.
JANEWAY: Moving on.
SEVEN: Your second stop.
(Images of the massacre.)
JANEWAY: Tarakis. The planet, it's called Tarakis. I've been here.
(Now Janeway is one of the soldiers.)

[Enclosure]

(Bodies are being vaporised.)
JANEWAY: What the hell are you doing?
SAAVDRA: Stand aside.
JANEWAY: They're already dead.
SAAVDRA: They were never here. We disabled their shield generators, entered the colony and they were gone.
JANEWAY: No one's going to believe that.
SAAVDRA: They will if we all keep to the same story.
JANEWAY: I won't lie about what happened here.
SAAVDRA: Then you say nothing.
JANEWAY: We murdered these people!
SAAVDRA: In self defence.
JANEWAY: If that were true, you wouldn't be vapourising the evidence. You don't have to listen to him! We've got to let people know we panicked. They'll understand!
SAAVDRA: No, they won't. Move away. I said, move away!

[Mess hall]

(Janeway wakes with a cry.)
JANEWAY: Oh! How long have I been here?
EMH: Three hours. You started hallucinating in Astrometrics. I'm afraid I had to sedate you.
JANEWAY: I was there. I was at the colony with Saavdra.
EMH: You're not the only one. Thirty nine crew members have begun to experience the same memories.
TUVOK: It appears that the entire crew has been affected.
(And the mess hall is an overflow ward.)
EMH: Their symptoms are identical. Increased engramatic activity, nightmares.
JANEWAY: I can imagine the away team being pulled into an alien conflict, but these people weren't anywhere near this system.
TUVOK: We've analysed Voyager's sensor records. If we did participate in a war, all evidence of it has been erased.
JANEWAY: The dream was so vivid. As real as anything I've experienced. But I refuse to believe that we could
EMH: Real or not, the memories are having a deleterious effect on the crew. The syndrome began to spread once we entered this system. I suggest we reverse course before it gets worse.
JANEWAY: No. If this massacre really happened, someone is to blame. I want to be certain that it wasn't us.
TUVOK: With all due respect, your judgment may be clouded by feelings of guilt about an incident that never occurred. The danger to our crew here and now is indisputable.
JANEWAY: I've seen you looking better, Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I've felt better myself. But were going to get through this. The massacre took place on Tarakis. Go to Red alert and set a course.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
EMH: A neural suppressant. It will help keep the memories from resurfacing.
(Seven brings food to Neelix.)
SEVEN: Your favourites. Talaxian stew and terra nut soufflé. The soufflé has collapsed slightly, but its nutritional content is intact.
NEELIX: Thank you. It looks delicious.
SEVEN: When Naomi Wildman is sad, she consumes desserts. She claims it improves her emotional state. Perhaps you should try it.
NEELIX: Naomi must be terrified of me, after what happened in the galley.
SEVEN: She's concerned about you. She told me she wants to visit you.
NEELIX: No. Not like this. I might do something to scare her again.
SEVEN: I'll give her your regards.
NEELIX: Seven? When you were a Borg, you were involved in some unpleasant activities.
SEVEN: I helped to assimilate millions.
NEELIX: I don't mean to be insensitive, but do you ever feel shame about what you did?
SEVEN: Frequently.
NEELIX: How to you manage to keep going, knowing that you've done such horrible things?
SEVEN: I have no choice.
NEELIX: Guilt is irrelevant?
SEVEN: On the contrary. My feelings of remorse help me remember what I did, and prevent me from taking similar actions in the future. Guilt can be a difficult, but useful, emotion.
NEELIX: It's certainly difficult. Is that chocolate mixed in there with the terra nuts?
SEVEN: I altered the recipe slightly. I hope you don't object.
NEELIX: Not at all.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Tarakis, dead ahead.
JANEWAY: Shields. Stand by weapons. On screen. Scan for vessels.
TUVOK: There are none.
JANEWAY: Take us into orbit.
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: Do it, Mister Paris.
(He does.)
CHAKOTAY: Life signs?
TUVOK: The planet appears to be uninhabited.
KIM: Looks the same as it did a few days ago when we scanned for dilithium deposits.
CHAKOTAY: Signs of weapons fire or phaser residue?
TUVOK: Negative.
JANEWAY: Run a full spectral scan. Look for anything unusual.
TUVOK: Nothing on geometric sensors.
KIM: Hold on. I'm picking up a power signature.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: I can't tell. The signal's erratic, but it's coming from the northernmost continent. Coordinates one seven two mark five.

[Transporter room]

(The away team is ready for anything.)
JANEWAY: Phasers.

[Tarakis - open meadow]

CHAKOTAY: Call it an educated guess, but I don't think this looks like a war zone.
JANEWAY: There's something familiar about it, though. I recognise those mountains.
KIM: Those trees weren't here.
JANEWAY: Search the area.
(They split up into two groups. A bird call makes Chakotay jump.)
TUVOK: Ensign?
KIM: The tunnel. It's nearby. The one where I, er
PARIS: How'd you get into it?
KIM: There was a rock formation. It hid the opening.
JANEWAY: A faint energy signature. This way.
KIM: Over here.
PARIS: There's your physical evidence.
TUVOK: I suggest we proceed with caution. Stand guard.
(Tuvok leaves Paris with a security guard. Janeway and Chakotay continue to track the energy source.)

[Tunnel]

KIM: I, I, I can't!
TUVOK: Remain calm. Slow, deep breaths.

[Cavern]

(Everything is covered in cobwebs.)
KIM: They were over there.
(Tuvok's wrist torch illuminates a pair of skeletons.)
TUVOK: I've found the remains of two humanoids, but you were not responsible for their deaths. They died over three hundred years ago.

[Memorial field]

(The energy source is a massive marble monument with a pulsing yellow ball on top. The base is inscribed with hieroglyphs.)
JANEWAY: I think we've found our war.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The structure contains a synaptic transmitter. I believe it was designed to send neurogenic pulses throughout this system.
JANEWAY: So anyone passing through would experience the Nakan massacre, like we did.
SEVEN: Precisely.
CHAKOTAY: Try running those symbols inscribed on the base through the translation matrix. (reads) Words alone cannot convey the suffering. Words alone cannot prevent what happened here from happening again. Beyond words lies experience. Beyond experience lies truth. Make this truth your own.
JANEWAY: It's a memorial. We weren't victims of a conspiracy, we were witnesses to a massacre.
CHAKOTAY: More than witnesses. By being forced to relive those events, half the crew's been traumatised.
JANEWAY: Maybe that was the point. I certainly won't forget what happened here.
CHAKOTAY: Anything in that database that might tell us who built this thing?
SEVEN: No. The technology has been neglected for more than two centuries. Its power cells are deteriorating.
JANEWAY: That could explain why our memories were so fragmented. It was probably designed to transmit the experience in sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Fascinating. Now let's try to shut it down so nobody else has to go through this. Kathryn?
JANEWAY: Yes, of course.

[Briefing room]

EMH: Even if we do shut down the transmitter, I'm afraid your memories of the massacre are permanent.
TUVOK: But we'll prevent this from happening to other passing ships.
NEELIX: If we do that, all record of what happened here would be lost.
CHAKOTAY: The monument will still be here.
NEELIX: But that doesn't really tell the story. Someone put a lot of time and care into building that transmitter. We can't just deactivate it. We don't have the right.
KIM: Did they have the right to force us to relive all that?
NEELIX: They wanted others to know what it was like, in the hopes that nothing like it would happen again.
CHAKOTAY: Why should anyone have to experience an atrocity they didn't commit?
NEELIX: Because that's how you learn not to make the same mistake. If we destroy the evidence, we're no better than Saavdra.
PARIS: Maybe he had a point.
KIM: It wasn't our fault!
TUVOK: Given the danger involved, it's only logical
NEELIX: This isn't about logic. It's about remembering.
CHAKOTAY: Some things are best forgotten.
JANEWAY: Not this. I stood by once before and did nothing. Not again.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: I watched while Saavdra vaporised the bodies.
PARIS: No offence but, those were other peoples' memories.
JANEWAY: The obelisk at Khitomer. The fields of Gettysburg. Those are other peoples' memories too, but we don't honour them any less. The eighty two colonists who died here, they deserve their memorial.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: We're not going to shut down the transmitter. Is that clear? Is that clear?
TUVOK: Are you suggesting we leave it intact?
JANEWAY: I'm suggesting that we repair it. Recharge the power cells. I want that monument to function properly for another three hundred years. We'll place a warning buoy in orbit. Anyone who enters this system will know what to expect. Dismissed.

[Memorial field]

(The original away team place power transfer receivers on the monument base.)
CHAKOTAY: We're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: I know this was hardest on the four of you. But if you hadn't stopped at this planet all the people who died here would have been forgotten. And if they could, I know they'd thank you. Janeway to Voyager. Stand by to initiate power transfer. Five to beam up.


S6 E15
Tsunkatse
Stardate: 53447.2
Original Airdate: 9 February 2000

(Spotlights play across the arena, music pounds, and the audience up in the gallery are excited with anticipation. A door opens, and a male runs into the arena. There are lights on his gloves and boots, and a disc on his chest. The crowd goes wild. Then his opponent enters - an Hirogen. A deep tone signals the start of the bout. They circle, then start hitting. The Hirogen knocks the other down, but gets kicked on the chest disc. There is a Zap! sound. More kicking, punching and dodging, then the Hirogen lands two good blows, and two more. His opponent is out for the count. In the crowd, Chakotay and Torres applaud.)

Captain's log, stardate 53447.2. The crew's enjoying a much needed shore leave on the Norcadian homeworld while I visit Pendari, a planet in the neighbouring system. I'm leaving Commander Chakotay in charge of Voyager.
[Corridor]

JANEWAY: You may want to run a diagnostic on the shield generators. It's way overdue.
CHAKOTAY: Consider it done.
JANEWAY: And don't forget to keep tabs on Neelix's little project in the mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: He's still trying to enhance the plasma burners in his stove?
JANEWAY: With some of Seven's Borg technology. I don't want him accidentally turning the galley into an assimilation chamber.
CHAKOTAY: I'll assign a security detail to keep tabs on him. Unless you think we need to take more drastic measures?
JANEWAY: And most important, be sure to tell your Captain when she's being overprotective.
CHAKOTAY: I'll do that.
JANEWAY: Thanks again for minding the store.
CHAKOTAY: Even the captain deserves a vacation once in a while.
JANEWAY: And her First Officer?
CHAKOTAY: He's looking forward to putting his feet up on your desk.
(Janeway goes into the shuttlebay.)
TORRES: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Fun last night, wasn't it?
TORRES: There's another match scheduled at fifteen hundred.
CHAKOTAY: I've got a systems diagnostic.
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, but you're in command until the captain gets back.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
TORRES: Delegate. I happen to know that Harry's free this afternoon.

[Mess hall]

CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, you're not suggesting I abuse my power.
(There is a large dish of something yellow on a hotplate.)
TORRES: Tell me that's not lunch.
NEELIX: It's leola ointment for my skin.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
NEELIX: I was so excited to visit one of those beautiful Norcadian beaches that I forgot to take my dermaline hypospray. I fell asleep under two suns.
(Neelix is very pink.)
TORRES: Ouch.
NEELIX: A little more colour than I was hoping for, but it'll be a beautiful amber before you know it. How's your shore leave been?
TORRES: Well, we've spent the last few days at the Tsunkatse matches.
NEELIX: Tsunkatse. I heard some crewmen talking about that during breakfast.
CHAKOTAY: It's exciting. A real test of strength and agility.
TORRES: You should come to the match with us this afternoon.
SEVEN: From what I've heard, Tsunkatse is crude and pointless.
TORRES: Well, I guess we won't be saving you a seat.
CHAKOTAY: What about you, Tuvok? You appreciate the martial arts.
TUVOK: I have other plans. There's a micro-nebula approximately one point six light years from here on the verge of collapse.
SEVEN: We'd like to take a shuttle to study it.
NEELIX: An away mission during shore leave?
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok and I don't require recreational activities.
TORRES: The Borg wouldn't know fun if they assimilated an amusement park.
CHAKOTAY: It's your shore leave. But try to enjoy yourselves. That's an order.

[Cargo Bay two]

PARIS: Here's the navigational data you asked for.
SEVEN: Thank you.
(Seven is packing several barrels with equipment.)
PARIS: How long are you planning on being gone?
SEVEN: Approximately forty eight hours.
PARIS: Just like B'Elanna.
SEVEN: Clarify.
PARIS: She over-packs too.
SEVEN: I haven't over-packed. I simply wish to be prepared for any contingency.
PARIS: And what contingency is this for?
SEVEN: That's an iso-modulator, enhanced to correct hull ablation in the event we encounter a meteoroid stream.
PARIS: Couldn't you just replicate an iso-modulator?
SEVEN: I prefer this one.
PARIS: Oh, I get it. You like to have your own things with you. B'Elanna's the same way. You know, she'd never admit it, but she still takes a stuffed animal with her whenever she's going to be away for more than a day. Toby the Targ.
SEVEN: Can Toby the Targ correct hull ablation? Your comparison is flawed.

[Corridor]

(Seven is carrying two smaller containers.)
EMH: Just the person I was looking for.
SEVEN: You require my assistance?
EMH: Your company. I was wondering if you care to join me on a tour of Norcadia's cultural hot spots. I hear their museums are among the finest in this sector.
SEVEN: I'm busy.
EMH: With what?
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok and I are leaving to study a collapsing micro-nebula.
EMH: During shore leave? I thought we'd discussed this. Shore leave is a perfect opportunity for you to spend time with other members of the crew, to develop your social skills.
SEVEN: Then I suppose I'll have to develop them with Commander Tuvok.
EMH: Vulcans aren't exactly known for their winning personalities.
SEVEN: You'd prefer I spent my time with sociable individuals such as yourself.
EMH: You could do worse.
SEVEN: In that case, perhaps you'd care to join us.
EMH: To study the micro-nebula?
SEVEN: You can assist us with our analysis of veridium oxide particulates.
EMH: On second thought, you and Tuvok have a good time.
SEVEN: I'll give the Commander your regrets.
EMH: Do that. And if the nebula isn't as riveting as you'd hoped, try to remember lesson thirty six. Pleasant Parlour Games To Pass The Time. You'll need it.

[Shuttlecraft]

SEVEN: Two hours, thirty seven minutes, thirteen seconds. That's how long we've gone without verbal communication.
TUVOK: Why is that remarkable?
SEVEN: The Doctor encourages me to engage in conversation during awkward silences.
TUVOK: Did you find the silence awkward?
SEVEN: No.
TUVOK: Nor did I.
SEVEN: There's a vessel approaching on an intercept course. The hull configuration is unfamiliar.
TUVOK: Distance?
SEVEN: Approximately three hundred thousand kilometres.
TUVOK: Hail them.
SEVEN: No response.
(The much bigger ship is coming up on them from astern.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.
SEVEN: The vessel is emitting some kind of dampening field. We've lost engines, weapons, shields.
(The shuttlecraft goes dark, then an object is beamed in. Tuvok scans it.)
TUVOK: It's an explosive device of some sort.
SEVEN: Transporters are down. I can't beam it off.
TUVOK: I'll try to disarm it.
(But there is a forcefield around it. It goes off.)

{Tsunkatse living quarters]

(Seven wakes up lying on a bunk. The next voice you hear will sound very familiar. It is Jeffrey Combs, aka Brunt, Weyoun, or Shran, amongst others.)
PENK: Borg-enhanced physiology. You should possess superior strength, agility, stamina, and visual acuity. Welcome to Tsunkatse. Since the game's inception our audience has never had the pleasure of seeing a drone compete. You are going to be a very popular attraction.
SEVEN: Where is Commander Tuvok?
PENK: Your comrade from the shuttle? I'm afraid he was injured in the explosion.
SEVEN: I wish to see him. Now.
PENK: Certainly. You will learn nothing is more important to me than the comfort and happiness of my fighters.
(The next voice usually comes from under a Klingon forehead - J G Hertzler.)
HIROGEN: Yes, Penk's generosity is legendary.
(Laughter from the other fighters.)
PENK: Quiet! He's envious because I've found a new favourite.
SEVEN: I have no intention of participating in your game.
PENK: Aggressive. I like that.
(Tuvok is helped into the room.)
SEVEN: He requires medical attention.
PENK: That can be arranged.
SEVEN: Then arrange it.
PENK: You haven't won a single bout, and already you're making demands like a champion.
SEVEN: Will you treat him or not?
PENK: Will you fight?
TUVOK: Do not comply. My condition is not severe.
(He has nasty burns.)
PENK: Spoken like a true competitor, willing to ignore his injuries for the sake of the contest. Schedule a bout for him. A Red Match against the Pensarkan.
HIROGEN: A Red Match does not end until one of the competitors is killed. Your friend would not survive.
PENK: But you might.
HIROGEN: Give her a Blue Match, Penk. You wouldn't want to lose your new favourite her first time in the pit.
PENK: Yes. We should start you off slowly.
SEVEN: Treat him, and I will comply.

[Mess hall]

TORRES: What about the seventh match?
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking the Vensiddian.
KIM: He lost his last two times out.
CHAKOTAY: But he's undefeated against left-handed fighters.
PARIS: You should trust him, Harry. Chakotay knows a thing or two about southpaws.
TORRES: He was twenty three and oh as a light heavyweight.
CHAKOTAY: Twenty three and and one, actually. A Nausicaan with a mean right hook.
KIM: You think that's bad? Try taking a parrises mallet to the ribs.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't know you played.
KIM: Three time Academy champion. Now, that's a tough sport.
CHAKOTAY: I boxed a few parrises players in my day.
TORRES: And?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say they went back to playing parrises squares after that.
KIM: Oh, was that a challenge, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I wouldn't want to put my Ops officer out of commission, now, would I?
KIM: I can take a punch.
TORRES: Careful, Harry. Legend has it that the Tattooed Terror has put more men in Sickbay than the Ankaran flu.
PARIS: Yeah, you wouldn't want to bruise your clarinet fingers.
KIM: Hey, you want to go a few rounds, or all you all talk?
PARIS: Any time, any place.
KIM: Oh, you punch like a Ferengi.

[Corridor]

TORRES: I don't care what Harry says. The Pensarkan-Bendali match is too close to call.
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you know how it turns out.
TORRES: Excuse me?
CHAKOTAY: I rearranged the duty schedules this morning. You've got the bridge starting at fourteen hundred hours.
TORRES: You're sticking me with that shift so that you can go to the fight.
CHAKOTAY: I'm delegating.
TORRES: Me and my big mouth.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd be pleased that I took your advice.
TORRES: Words fail me. Now remind me. The reason that you have to see that fight is because?
CHAKOTAY: I'm an anthropologist.
TORRES: What does that have to do with Tsunkatse?
CHAKOTAY: It's a cultural phenomenon.

[Sickbay]

(Neelix' sunburn has blisters.)
EMH: You're having an allergic reaction to your leola ointment. I hope you've learned your lesson. Talaxian homeopathy is no substitute for medical science. This should help with the swelling and discoloration.
NEELIX: Ow.
EMH: But you'll have to stay out of the sun.
NEELIX: What about the rest of my shore leave?
EMH: I suggest you limit it to indoor activities.
NEELIX: Commander Chakotay and B'Elanna invited me to the Tsunkatse matches. I guess I'll go. 

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I'm disappointed in you, Mister Neelix. Cheering for one individual to inflict serious injury on another hardly seems like an activity you'd enjoy.
NEELIX: Well, Commander Chakotay says that it's a wonderful demonstration of athletic prowess.
EMH: You seem to be forgetting that Commander Chakotay is an aficionado of boxing, arguably the most barbaric sport in Earth's history. Surely you can find some way to occupy your free time that doesn't involve alien fisticuffs.
NEELIX: Do you have any suggestions?
EMH: As a matter of fact, I was planning a visit to the Norcadian Museum of Entomology this afternoon. There's a fascinating exhibit of beetle larvae from the equatorial sub-continent. You're welcome to join me.
NEELIX: Hmm, alien bugs, or alien fisticuffs. Ooo, that's a tough one.

[Tsunkatse arena]

(This is a women's match.)
CROWD: Tsunkat, tsunkat, tsunkat.
NEELIX: You were right, Commander. This is exciting. Two opponents, alone in the pit, with only their strength and agility to protect them.
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're enjoying yourself.
NEELIX: I still don't understand the rules.
CHAKOTAY: It's simple. A Tsunkatse fighter wears a polaron disruptor on both hands and feet. Each disruptor delivers a bio-plasmic charge when it comes in contact one of the opponent's target sensors.
NEELIX: So there is strategy involved?
CHAKOTAY: A fighter has to attack his rival's sensors without exposing his own.
PARIS: Are you two going to talk, or you here to watch?
(Enter the Champion. Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, with a bit of an alien forehead. He raises an eyebrow and the crowd go wild.)
NEELIX: He looks like he could pick up a shuttlecraft.
KIM: He's a Pendari. They're known for their superior strength.
PARIS: And their bad temper.
KIM: I hear they have a tendency to throw their opponents into the stands.
PARIS: Be ready to duck.
(His opponent enters.)
NEELIX: Seven?
KIM: Seven! Seven!
CHAMPION: You're no bigger than a Tarkanian field mouse. Penk's insulting me by putting you in the pit to face me.
SEVEN: I must warn you. I possess superior strength.
CHAMPION: I'm trembling.
(He knocks her down before the starting bell has faded away.)
KIM: Seven! Seven!
NEELIX: Seven!
SEVEN: I assure you, resistance is futile.
CHAMPION: So is all your talk.
(She gets knocked down again.)
NEELIX: Seven!
PARIS: It's no use. She can't hear us.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Come in!
TORRES: Calling to give me a blow-by-blow description of the match, Commander?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven of Nine is in the pit.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: No time to explain. Beam her out of there.

[Tsunkatse arena]

(Seven gets a good contact with the champion's chest sensor. He falls to his knees.)
SEVEN: I have no desire to inflict further damage.
CHAMPION: I'm afraid I can't say the same.
(And knocks her onto her back with his trademark move. She gets up and kicks him, and he punches her again.)

[Bridge]

TORRES: I'm locked onto the coordinates of the pit. Seven's not there.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'm looking right at her!
TORRES: Not according to these sensors.

[Tsunkatse arena]

KIM: Maybe their lifesigns are masked?
CHAKOTAY: Try recalibrating the bioscanners.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Acknowledged.

[Tsunkatse arena]

(The fighters fritz briefly.)
TORRES [OC]: There's nothing to lock onto. The only readings I'm picking up are photonic.
KIM: Holograms?
PARIS: They're transmitting the fight from another location.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]

(And Seven is getting thrown around a lot.)
PENK: Transmission to one of the arenas on Norcadia Prime is being disrupted. Compensate.

[Tsunkatse arena]

(Seven knocks the Champion down, but hesitates to finish the match. He kicks her, grabs her and slams her down onto the floor before punching her in the stomach. The fight is ended, and the Voyager spectators are the only ones not cheering.)
CROWD: Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat!
CHAKOTAY: Voyager, four to beam up.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've scanned the Norcadian surface, Captain. There's no sign of them.
JANEWAY: Any luck tracing the transmission?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're trying, but it's not easy.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: There are transmissions being sent to every planet in the sector.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I guess you aren't the only ones who enjoy this sport.
TORRES: It could take days before we can figure out where Seven and Tuvok are being held.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: What about diplomatic channels?
CHAKOTAY: Neelix is meeting with a group of Norcadian officials.
JANEWAY: Well, let's hope he gets their cooperation.
CHAKOTAY: When can we expect you back?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I'm at the outer rim of the Pendari system. At best, I'm forty eight hours away.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry to cut your vacation short.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: That's okay, Commander. Keep me informed. Janeway out.

{Tsunkatse living quarters]

SEVEN: Stay away from me.
HIROGEN: It's a dermal regenerator. The Pendari you fought injured you. Now, keep still. It's almost out of power.
SEVEN: I prefer that you use it to treat Commander Tuvok.
HIROGEN: I already have. He's sleeping.
SEVEN: Why are you helping us?
HIROGEN: I recognise fellow hunters when I see them.
SEVEN: I'm no hunter.
HIROGEN: I saw your match today. Your skills are impressive.
SEVEN: The Pendari would disagree.
HIROGEN: You almost defeated him. But at the last moment, you hesitated. You questioned your desire to destroy your prey.
SEVEN: I have no such desire.
HIROGEN: Don't you? I thought I saw it in your eyes. With the proper training, you could become a champion.
SEVEN: Until our ship comes to rescue us, my only goal is to survive.
HIROGEN: Do you know the difference between a survivor and a champion here? There isn't one.
(Penk enters with his two armed bodyguards.)
PENK: I wanted to be the first to congratulate you.
SEVEN: I lost.
PENK: Exactly. There's a great deal of hostility toward the Borg in this sector. Whenever the Pendari landed a blow, our audience grew. We're getting tens of thousands of requests to see you fight again.
HIROGEN: She needs time to recuperate, to prepare for her next bout.
PENK: I agree. There's a Red Match scheduled for the day after tomorrow. The Pendari was supposed to compete, but I've entered you in his place. If three billion people paid to see you hurt, imagine how many will pay to see you die.
(Penk leaves.)
SEVEN: Survival may be more difficult than I imagined.
HIROGEN: You will win the match.
SEVEN: What makes you say that?
HIROGEN: I know your opponent. I know his weaknesses. I can train you to defeat him.
SEVEN: I told you. I will not kill anyone in that arena.
HIROGEN: Consider the alternative.
SEVEN: Teach me.
(Later -)
HIROGEN: You're letting your elbow fall, exposing your target.
SEVEN: You're mistaken. My arm is positioned properly. When executing the Tanyk Defence, the blocking elbow must remain parallel to the median sensor.
HIROGEN: Ah, The Book of Tsunkatse.
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok borrowed it from one of the other fighters.
HIROGEN: It is obvious you've studied it well.
SEVEN: I'm attempting a defence against any
(The Hirogen knocks her down.)
SEVEN: That was not one of the thirty three sanctioned manoeuvres.
HIROGEN: There must be thirty four.
SEVEN: I was unprepared for your attack.
HIROGEN: Is that what you're going to say to your opponent? Stop thinking like a drone. Sanctioned manoeuvres, perfecting defences. You cannot assimilate Tsunkatse from a book. You must live it, feel it, in here. Your movements must become instinct. An attack can come at any time from any direction. You must learn to improvise.
SEVEN: Like this?(
She punches him and hurts him.)
SEVEN: I've observed you often favour your left side. 
HIROGEN: Very perceptive. It's a wound I sustained in one of my first matches. After nineteen years, it still hasn't healed properly.
SEVEN: You've been here a long time.
HIROGEN: I was taken during my son's first hunt. He was so proud to be with his father, watching every movement I made, imitating my gestures. But instead of bringing home his first trophy, he saw his father become someone else's prey.
SEVEN: Do you know what happened to him?
HIROGEN: I never saw him again. All Penk would say was that the boy was too small for competition.
SEVEN: Perhaps he managed to return home.
(The Hirogen kicks Seven, knocking her against a bunk bed.)
HIROGEN: You let down your defences. Why?
SEVEN: I was
HIROGEN: What? Feeling sorry for me and My tragic past?
SEVEN: Yes.
HIROGEN: You must never sympathise with your prey. Unless you accept that, you will die. We'll continue.

[Transporter room]

CHAKOTAY: How did it go?
NEELIX: Oh, the Norcadians were shocked to learn that off-worlders might be participating against their will.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: The Ambassador promised to begin an immediate investigation.
CHAKOTAY: You don't sound too convinced.
NEELIX: I'm not. I spoke to one of the Pendari delegates. According to him, a huge percentage of the planet's revenue is derived from Tsunkatse. Nobody wants to do anything that might interfere with the game.
CHAKOTAY: So they turn a blind eye to the recruitment tactics.
NEELIX: We're not going to get any help through official channels. It's hard to believe, a civilisation whose favourite pastime is cheering while innocent people fight each other.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: If Seven and Tuvok hadn't been abducted, we might still be cheering too.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: What have you got?
TORRES: Well, one of the reasons we were having trouble isolating the source of the transmissions was because they never seem to be coming from the same place twice. At first we thought the matches were being held in various locations.
KIM: But when we connected the dots, we realised that the pattern conformed to a flight path.
TORRES: One that spanned the entire sector.
CHAKOTAY: They're transmitting the fights from a ship.
NEELIX: Like a travelling carnival.
KIM: Oh, this is no carnival. Five million metric tons, reinforced hull plating protected by covariant shielding. Neutronic weaponry.
TORRES: It's way out of our weight class.
CHAKOTAY: The bigger they come, Lieutenant. Transmit these coordinates to the Captain. Tell her we could use a hand.

{Tsunkatse living quarters]

(Seven goes through solo moves.)
HIROGEN: Excellent. When your opponent enters the arena, what do you see?
SEVEN: My prey.
HIROGEN: And what do you do to your prey?
SEVEN: Hunt it down and kill it.
HIROGEN: Go rest before your match.
SEVEN: Thank you.
HIROGEN: Thank me by winning. (Seven goes to Tuvok, who is working on a control panel.)
SEVEN: Penk's guards are making their inspection rounds. Progress?
TUVOK: Both the dampening field and the shielding of this vessel are tetryon-based, but without access to the control interface I can't disable either. Your training?
SEVEN: Complete.
TUVOK: Are you adequately prepared?
SEVEN: The Hirogen is an efficient instructor. He believes I'll win.
TUVOK: That troubles you?
SEVEN: The idea of killing someone for the entertainment of others is detestable.
TUVOK: Is the idea of losing your own life for the entertainment of others more palatable? As a drone, you took many lives.
SEVEN: I was acting as part of the Collective.
TUVOK: You're worried you won't have the strength to accomplish the task on your own.
SEVEN: I'm worried that I will.
(Penk enters.)
PENK: It's time.
TUVOK: Do whatever it takes to survive.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]

(Seven enters to boos from the crowd. She crosses the pit and waits for her opponent. The Hirogen enters to cheers.)
SEVEN: You knew.
HIROGEN: Yes.
(The signal for the bout to start. They circle each other.)
SEVEN: Training me was a deception. You wished to familiarise yourself with my weaknesses.
HIROGEN: I was helping you to overcome them.
SEVEN: Why?
HIROGEN: Nineteen years is a long time. I've grown tired.
SEVEN: You wish to be killed in the arena?
HIROGEN: I want a death my son would be proud of.
SEVEN: I won't be the one to provide it.
HIROGEN: Then I'll be forced to kill you.
(The fight starts, and the Hirogen gets in the first blow.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Approaching the vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Take us out of warp. Raise shields and charge weapons. Any sign of Tuvok and Seven?
KIM: Our sensors can't penetrate their shields.
CHAKOTAY: Hail them.
PENK [on viewscreen]: This is not a convenient time.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. You're holding two of my people.
PENK [on viewscreen]: You'll have to be more specific.
CHAKOTAY: Commander Tuvok and Seven of Nine. Return them. Now.
PENK [on viewscreen]: The Borg drone and her friend. I'm afraid she's occupied at the moment.
CHAKOTAY: You have thirty seconds before I open fire.
PENK: A fighter. I respect that. But you're no match for me.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]

SEVEN: We can still find another way out of this.
HIROGEN: There is no other way. You're still dropping your elbow.
(He twists her arm behind her back.)
HIROGEN: Make a choice. Hunter or Prey? Hunter or Prey?
(She kicks herself free and retaliates. They trade blows. Voyager shoots at Penk's vessel.)

[Bridge]

TORRES: Direct hit to their aft shield generators.
KIM: Still no sign of Seven, but I've got a lock on Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Beam him to Sickbay. Keep targeting those generators.
KIM: Transport complete.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know Seven's status?

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: She's being forced to fight to the death. I believe they're on the uppermost deck. 

[Bridge]

KIM: That section's protected by multiphasic force fields. I can't penetrate them.
TORRES: Shields down to forty percent. Thirty two percent.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]

HIROGEN: You're getting weak. I should have found worthier prey.
(He throws Seven across the pit.)
HIROGEN: You're imperfect. (She does a flying kick, sending him spinning to the floor.)
HIROGEN: Is that the best you can do?

[Bridge]

TORRES: Shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Harry?
KIM: Still can't get a lock.
PARIS: Should I get us out of here before they knock out our propulsion?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. If we can't beam her out, maybe we can shut down the transmission.
PARIS: If nobody's watching, then why continue the fight?
CHAKOTAY: Start targeting their signal generators.
KIM: Hull breach on deck eleven.
CHAKOTAY: Seal it.
(Seven is starting to get the upper hand, and the crowd are going with her.)
TORRES: We've lost weapons.
PARIS: Another vessel is approaching.
TORRES: Great. Now they're bringing in reinforcements?
PARIS: No, this one's on our side. It's the Delta Flyer.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Good to see you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Nothing like getting back to work after a long vacation.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We need you to target their signal generators.
JANEWAY: Understood.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]

(The fight disappears from at least one arena.)
PENK: We've lost more than half our audience. Reroute power to transmitters five and six.

[Bridge]

KIM: They've reduced power to their forcefields. I've got two lifesigns in there. Seven and a Hirogen but I can't get an individual lock.
CHAKOTAY: Transport them both if you have to. Tom.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]

(Seven and the Hirogen trade blows, then she gets in a kick to his left side. He falls to his knees. She places more punches on his chest sensor and he falls.)
CROWD: Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat!
(Seven kneels next to him and raises both fists for the final blow.)
HIROGEN: Never let your prey suffer. Kill it.
(They are beamed away.)

[Transporter room]

(An armed guard is waiting.)
PARIS: Seven, stand away.
SEVEN: It's all right. This fight is over.
(She helps the Hirogen to his feet.)

Captain's log, stardate 53529.4. We've resumed course for the Alpha quadrant and initiated repairs. I can't say I'm sorry to see this shore leave come to an end.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: We located an Hirogen hunting party three light years away. They've agreed to rendezvous with us.
HIROGEN: I'm grateful.
SEVEN: Would you excuse us?
EMH: Very well. But if you should need anything, an analgesic, a phaser rifle, don't hesitate to ask.
SEVEN: I apologise for the Doctor. He's very protective of me.
HIROGEN: He doesn't realise how well you defend yourself.
(He removes his chest sensor.)
HIROGEN: A trophy.
SEVEN: What will do you now, search for new prey?
HIROGEN: No. This time I will be searching for my son.
SEVEN: If he is as clever as his father, he may be difficult to locate.
HIROGEN: I've been wondering. Would you have killed me?
SEVEN: I don't know.
HIROGEN: Fortunately, you were right. There was another way out.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: I thought you might require assistance.
SEVEN: Thank you.
TUVOK: I realise we share an affinity for silences, but in this instance I feel compelled to speak. If you hadn't offered to take my place in the arena, it's likely I would have been killed.
SEVEN: I made the logical choice, as you would have.
TUVOK: Still, I owe you a debt of gratitude.
SEVEN: Assisting me with these recalibrations will be sufficient thanks.
TUVOK: Have you fully recovered?
SEVEN: I'm experiencing minor pain beneath my occipital implant. The Doctor believes it is temporary.
TUVOK: I wasn't referring to your physical condition.
SEVEN: When the Hirogen referred to me as weak, he was correct.
TUVOK: But you overpowered him.
SEVEN: Because I lost control.
TUVOK: Given the circumstances, your behaviour was understandable.
SEVEN: I've spent the last three years struggling to regain my humanity. I'm afraid I may have lost it again in that arena.
TUVOK: You're experiencing difficult emotions.
SEVEN: Guilt, shame, remorse.
TUVOK: Then you haven't lost your humanity. You have reaffirmed it.


S6 E16
Collective
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 16 February 2000

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
(A card came is in process, for money.)
NEELIX: Heart, heart, heart. Just one more heart.
PARIS: You might as well be showing us your hand, Neelix. This is a game of strategy, deception.
KIM: Never let the opponents know your hand.
NEELIX: Right.
(Paris, who is the dealer, gives Neelix his one card.)
NEELIX: Bah.
CHAKOTAY: Ten.
KIM: I see your ten, and raise you twenty.
PARIS: Neelix?
NEELIX: I'm thinking. Twenty. Another twenty. Ha.
KIM: If I didn't know any better, I'd say we're being hustled.
NEELIX: Ensign?
KIM: Oh, I'm not buying the innocent Talaxian routine.
NEELIX: I don't know what you're talking about. I've, I've, this is the first time I've played. What is it called?
ALL: Poker.
PARIS: Look, why don't we make things a little more interesting. Forget the chips. Let's bet on tomorrow's work detail, all right? Whoever wins this hand gets the morning off.
CHAKOTAY: I'm in.
KIM: I'm in.
NEELIX: Sounds good to me.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got?
KIM: Two pair.
NEELIX: Does that beat a flush?
KIM: I knew you were bluffing.
CHAKOTAY: That beats me. Tom?
(Tom is staring at a Borg Cube coming straight for them.)
CHAKOTAY: Battle stations!
PARIS: And I had a full house.
(The Cube fires at the Flyer.)
PARIS: I can't shake them.
CHAKOTAY: Return fire.
NEELIX: Why didn't our sensors detect them?
KIM: Looks like they used a dispersal field to mask their approach.
CHAKOTAY: Warp drive?
PARIS: No luck. Too much damage to the plasma injectors.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, get down there and see what you can do.
NEELIX: Shields down eighteen percent.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, status?

[Delta Flyer - Jefferies tube]

KIM: I need time to clear the injectors.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

NEELIX: Sir, the Cube's power output is fluctuating.
CHAKOTAY: Then we're still in the game. Bring us about. Target their propulsion matrix.
NEELIX: We've lost phasers.
CHAKOTAY: Arm photon torpedoes. Fire when ready.
NEELIX: We knocked out their main propulsion system.
CHAKOTAY: Good. Now get us out of here, Tom.
PARIS: They've got us in a tractor beam
CHAKOTAY: Harry!

[Delta Flyer - Jefferies tube]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: We need warp power, now!
KIM: We lost two more relays. I can't!
(Another hit knocks Kim out.)

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

CHAKOTAY: Harry? Harry!
PARIS: Engines are offline.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. Your biological and technological distinctiveness will be added to our own. Resistance is futile.
(The Flyer is dragged inside the Cube.)

[Neelix's nightmare]

BORG-CHAKOTAY: Neelix.

[Assimilation chamber]

CHAKOTAY: Neelix!
NEELIX: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It's all right. You were unconscious, but I don't think you're injured.
NEELIX: I was dreaming you'd been assimilated.
CHAKOTAY: Your subconscious was jumping the gun, but not by much. From the look of this room, I'd say we're in an assimilation chamber.
PARIS: Where's Harry?
CHAKOTAY: He's not here.
PARIS: Well, we've got to find him.
CHAKOTAY: We need to get our bearings first. Figure out what's going on.
PARIS: We're in a Borg Cube and Harry's missing. That's what's going on.
NEELIX: Sir.
(There is a partly assimilated body on the surgical table.)
CHAKOTAY: Nobody we know.
PARIS: Some kind of botched assimilation?
CHAKOTAY: From the looks of it.
PARIS: What are they waiting for? They've got three more potential drones here.
CHAKOTAY: Stay calm.
PARIS: Calm? We're in a chamber of horrors or haven't you noticed?
CHAKOTAY: We're not drones yet. If we keep our heads, maybe we can find a way out. There's a forcefield around this room. Let's try to disable it.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Their ion trail ends directly ahead.
TORRES: I'm detecting another vessel, bearing three zero, mark one one two. It's a Borg Cube.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Alter course to intercept. Adjust shields to rotating frequencies. Have they detected us?
TUVOK: Unclear. The vessel's holding position.
JANEWAY: As soon as we're within sensor range, start scanning for the away team. On screen.
SEVEN: Their propulsion system is offline. The damage is not that severe. The drones should've repaired it by now.
JANEWAY: Lucky for us they didn't, or we'd never have caught up with them. Any sign of our people?
TORRES: Not yet.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: They are targeting our warp core. Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Return fire. Aim for their weapons array.
TORRES: Now they're going after our impulse engines. That one was meant for our sensors. They can't seem to make up their minds.
SEVEN: Their attack strategy is erratic, inefficient.
TUVOK: And finished. We've disabled their weapons.
TORRES: That was too easy.
JANEWAY: Maybe they're in worse shape than we thought.
TUVOK: I'm picking up non-Borg life signs. One of them is definitely Talaxian. It looks as though they haven't been assimilated yet.
JANEWAY: Try to get a transporter lock.
TORRES: Their shields are interfering.
JANEWAY: Target their shield generator and fire.
SEVEN: Captain, I believe I can explain the unusual behaviour of these Borg. There should be thousands of drones manning the vessel, but I'm picking up only five signatures.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
TORRES: It doesn't sound like they've lost their confidence.
TUVOK: Their shield generators are too deep inside the vessel. Our weapons can't reach them.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Borg vessel, this is the starship Voyager. You're holding our crewmen. We're willing to cease firing if you return them.
BORG [OC]: Negotiation is irrelevant. You will be assimilated.
JANEWAY: Not today, and not by you. Agree, or I'll resume firing.
TUVOK: They are scanning us.
BORG [OC]: We will return your crew members in exchange for specific technology.
TORRES: Talk about unusual behaviour. The Borg negotiating?
JANEWAY: What technology?
BORG [OC]: Your navigational deflector. Disengage it from your secondary hull.
JANEWAY: Mute audio.
TUVOK: If we surrender our deflector, we'll be dead in space. We won't be able to go to warp.
JANEWAY: What would they want with it?
SEVEN: When their communications array was damaged, it severed their link to the Collective. They intend to adapt our deflector to regain it.
JANEWAY: And call for reinforcements? That's the last thing we need. We'll have to stall them until we can find another way out of this.
(Janeway signals audio on.)
JANEWAY: I'll consider the exchange, but first I want to be certain my crewmen are unharmed and alive.
BORG [OC]: You have scanned our vessel.
JANEWAY: Our scans were inconclusive. We want to see them for ourselves.
BORG [OC]: You may transport one individual.
JANEWAY: Seven.

[Cube - corridor]

(There are lots of dead Borg around. Seven scans one.)
BORG [OC]: Proceed to grid six three, sub-junction zero one.

[Maturation area]

(There is a foetus in a chamber. Seven turns to see a young girl and four boys, both teen and pre-teen.)
BORG [OC]: State your designation.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine. These drones have not fully matured. Where are the others?
BORG [OC]: There are no others. The drones aboard this vessel were
(The eldest boy steps forward.)
LEADER: Deactivated. We are the Borg. Seven of Nine. A Borg designation.
(The young girl speaks.)
MEZOTI: She's like us.
(The other teen boy steps forward.)
ICHEB: Not like us. She's damaged. Her infrastructure has been removed.
MEZOTI: We could fix her.
ICHEB: You will add to our perfection.
SEVEN: You are neonatal drones. You should still be in maturation chambers.
LEADER: We've matured long enough.
SEVEN: Doubtful. Your thoracic nodes haven't formed yet. You're incomplete. You'll continue to malfunction. You must return to your maturation chambers. Comply.
LEADER: Don't listen to her.
ICHEB: We tried to go back in. The chambers were offline.
SEVEN: What happened to the adult drones?
(Another pre-teen boy, one of a pair of twins.)
AZAN: We don't know.
LEADER: Irrelevant. Don't tell her anything.
SEVEN; This vessel has been severely damaged. You won't be able to repair it alone. I can help you, but first you must release the hostages.
LEADER: That wasn't the agreement.
SEVEN: I've modified the agreement. I didn't realise I'd be dealing with children. Your behaviour is erratic. I can't be certain that you
LEADER: No modifications. We show you the hostages, you give us the deflector. Comply. Comply!
SEVEN: Take me to them.
(Mezoti leads the way, and Icheb follows.)
LEADER: If she tries to resist, assimilate her.

[Cube - corridor]

SEVEN: Do you have a designation?
ICHEB: Second.
SEVEN: You were the second to emerge from the chambers.
ICHEB: No, the first. I could not establish order. I became Second and he became First.
SEVEN; So you've established a chain of command, a hierarchy.
MEZOTI: We're a Collective.
SEVEN: A collective of five on a vessel normally run by five thousand. What makes you think you'll survive?
ICHEB: When we re-establish our link with the Borg, they will come for us.

[Assimilation chamber]

PARIS: Commander, we've got company.
SEVEN: I wish to see if they're injured.
(The forcefield is lowered.)
CHAKOTAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Don't let their appearance fool you. They are in control of this vessel and all of its armaments. Are you injured?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing serious. A previous tenant.
ICHEB: We were trying to perfect our assimilation techniques.
SEVEN: You failed.
MEZOTI: One of these captives was attempting to disconnect the security field.
PARIS: Actually, I was just trying to
(Mezoti shoots Paris.)
SEVEN: That was unnecessary.
ICHEB: He is not permanently damaged.
MEZOTI: He learnt his lesson.
SEVEN: The Borg are prepared to negotiate for your release. I will return for you.
CHAKOTAY: Give my regards to Harry.

[Cube - corridor]

ICHEB: The deflector array.
SEVEN: I'm not authorised to give you technology. I must report back to Captain Janeway.
ICHEB: Agreed.
SEVEN: I also need to take an adult drone and a data node back to Voyager for analysis.
MEZOTI: Why?
SEVEN: Something happened on this vessel that none of us understand. If it happens again, it could endanger all of you.
(Icheb nods.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: No sign of Harry yet, but there are parts of the cube that we still can't scan.
TUVOK: Could the drones be holding him in another location?
JANEWAY: Unlikely. Seven said they didn't seem to be aware of his presence.
TUVOK: If he ejected in an escape pod, we would have detected his beacon by now.
JANEWAY: Try to activate his comm. badge. Match the carrier wave to a Borg interlink frequency. They shouldn't detect it.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: What have we learned from our friend here?
EMH: The bigger they come, the harder they fall. Behold the David that slew our Goliath.
(Micro-cellular scan 407)
JANEWAY: A pathogen.
EMH: A space-borne virus that adapted to Borg physiology. It's inert now, but in its virulent state it attacked the drones and killed them.
TUVOK: Why weren't the juveniles infected?
SEVEN: The maturation chamber is designed to protect developing drones. Malfunctions caused by the deaths of the adults led several of the chambers to open prematurely.
TUVOK: Does this pathogen only target the Borg?
EMH: The Borg, and other cybernetic organisms it encounters. You're not thinking of using it as a biological weapon?
TUVOK: If we can revive the pathogen and reintroduce it, we could neutralise the drones without harming the away team.
EMH: Neutralise? You mean murder, don't you? Captain, they're children.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that these children have committed murder themselves in their futile attempts to assimilate others.
JANEWAY: Seven, tell me something. You saw them, talked to them. Do you think they'll kill the hostages if we don't give them what they want?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: I want that pathogen as an option, Doctor, but I won't consider using it until I've seen these drones for myself. Think you can arrange that? Then you're with me.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

(The beep of his comm. badge wakes Kim in the Jefferies tube. He crawls out and goes to the cockpit.)
KIM: Computer, identify the source of this comm. signal.
COMPUTER: Starship Voyager.
KIM: I need to respond on the same carrier wave.
COMPUTER: That procedure will require significant modifications.
KIM: Well, don't worry. I'm way ahead of you.

[Maturation area]

LEADER: Why are you here?
JANEWAY: I wanted to make a new proposal.
LEADER: We've already negotiated. You've seen the hostages. Now give us the deflector as agreed.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's hard for you to accept, but you don't have to rejoin the Hive. Our Doctor can remove your implants. You can come with us. You were individuals yourselves not long ago. Children with families. You were abducted and assimilated. I recognise your species. You're Brenari, and you're Norcadian. Do you remember your world?
MEZOTI: A theta class planetoid. population two and sixty million. Binary suns.
JANEWAY: And what did it look like when those suns set each night? Can you remember that?
LEADER: Irrelevant! The deflector, now.
JANEWAY: We need more time. That deflector array is essential to our
(The Leader grabs Janeway and pushes her against a wall. A forcefield blocks Seven from assisting.)
LEADER: No! Give it to us.
JANEWAY: Or what? You'll assimilate me? That won't solve your problem. I can't give you Voyager's deflector, but maybe we can repair your technology.
LEADER: Clarify.
JANEWAY: Seven knows a good deal about Borg systems.
LEADER: You have two hours.
SEVEN: I don't know the extent of the damage. It could take longer.
LEADER: Two hours or your hostages die. Don't come back here, Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I bought us another two hours. The pathogen?
TUVOK: It should be ready by then.
TORRES: Did you see the away team?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not, but Seven assured me our people haven't been harmed.
TORRES: I can't believe we're negotiating with adolescent drones.
JANEWAY: They're not exactly drones. Mature Borg are predictable. They'll ignore you or assimilate you. But these juveniles, they're unstable.
TUVOK: They are contemptuous of authority, convinced that they are superior. Typical adolescent behaviour for any species.
TORRES: It's a transmission, from the Cube.
JANEWAY: Seven?
TORRES: No. It's Harry. I'm clearing it up now.
KIM [OC]: Delta Flyer to Voyager, respond.
JANEWAY: We're receiving you, Ensign. Where are you?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

KIM: Still in the Flyer. It's locked up in some kind of hanger bay, along with two alien ships.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I've isolated his coordinates.
JANEWAY: How close is he to their shield generator?
TUVOK: Roughly eight hundred metres.
JANEWAY: Harry, are there any plasma charges aboard the Flyer?
KIM [OC]: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: In that case, how do you feel about going for a little walk?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

KIM: I could use the exercise.
JANEWAY [OC]: Tuvok will guide you to the shield generator. If you destroy it, you won't have to make the trip back.
KIM: Understood.

[Cube - computer access station]

ICHEB: I have the technology you've requested.
SEVEN: Thank you.
ICHEB: You were a drone for eighteen years.
SEVEN: Correct.
ICHEB: I accessed your data file.
SEVEN: Why?
ICHEB: I thought it might be relevant.
SEVEN: What else did you learn?
ICHEB: You were assimilated as a juvenile, like us.
SEVEN: My parents were scientists studying the Borg. They took me with them. My childhood was short.
ICHEB: Childhood?
SEVEN: The years between birth and physical maturity, when humanoids adapt to their roles as individuals. Perhaps you have memory of yours.
ICHEB: I don't know.
SEVEN: What about your parents? Do you remember them?
ICHEB: No. No memories.
(His voice has a slight vibrato.)
SEVEN: Your sub-vocal processor is malfunctioning. I can repair it for you. It's a slight adjustment. It won't be painful.
ICHEB: The First told me my malfunction could not be repaired until we reconnected with the Collective.
(Seven has repaired it.)
ICHEB: This colour. My mother's hair was this colour.
LEADER: I thought we agreed, no irrelevant discussions. What is the punishment for disobeying the protocols?
ICHEB: Deactivation.
SEVEN: I engaged him in this discussion.
LEADER: Return to your station.

[Ready room]

SEVEN: I found some unsettling information. I examined their communication records. The Collective did receive the drones' initial distress call.
JANEWAY: How long before they arrive?
SEVEN: A vessel was not dispatched. The Collective declared the neonatal drones irrelevant and severed their link to the Hive permanently.
JANEWAY: They see them as damaged, unworthy of re-assimilation.
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: Are the drones aware of this?
SEVEN: No. They don't have the ability to decrypt the message.
JANEWAY: Once they learn they've been rejected by the Hive, they won't need our deflector. They might be willing to release the hostages.
SEVEN: Normally when drones learn they're irrelevant, they deactivate themselves. But these neonatal drones are unpredictable. They may not adhere to Borg protocols.
JANEWAY: There is another option. We could invite them to Voyager. When they realise they have no place else to go
SEVEN: If you're suggesting transforming them into individuals, that would be extremely difficult.
JANEWAY: You turned out pretty well, Seven.
SEVEN: That's because I was prepared before you encountered me.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
SEVEN: When I was first captured by the Borg, I was young and frightened. I watched my parents assimilated. Then I was placed in a maturation chamber, and the Hive mind began to restructure my synaptic pathways, purge my individuality. When I emerged five years later, the turmoil of my forced assimilation had been replaced with order. You may not be aware of this, Captain, but that order continues to be a source of strength for me. I could not have regained my humanity without it.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your insights. But just because they didn't have the benefit of your Borg upbringing doesn't mean we're going to turn our backs on them. There has to be another way.
SEVEN: Not all drones can be saved, Captain.
JANEWAY: Continue the repairs aboard the Borg Cube. We'll hold onto this information for now.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: They do have one thing going for them. You. If there's anyone who can reach them, it's you.

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM [OC]: Three of hearts on a transwarp conduit.
TUVOK: Ensign?

[Cube - corridor]

KIM: King of clubs on a power coupling. I'm marking my route with playing cards in case I have to come back the same way.
TUVOK [OC]: You shouldn't distract yourself, Mister Kim.
KIM: I need a little distraction. This hike is bringing up some bad memories.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: An earlier visit to a Borg Cube?
KIM [OC]: No, a haunted house my parents took me to when I was six.
TUVOK: Borg vessels may be forbidding, but they are not haunted.

[Cube - junction]

KIM: Tuvok?
TUVOK [OC]: Turn left, Ensign.
KIM: Nine of diamonds on a data node.

[Maturation area]

SEVEN: The resonance field collapsed. It'll take an hour to reinitialise.
LEADER: These delays are intentional.
SEVEN: I'm working as efficiently as I can. Examine my work for yourself if you have doubts.
(The Leader looks at her PADD.)
LEADER: This data's flawed.
SEVEN: More likely it's your understanding of quadric field theory that's flawed.
LEADER: Ignore her. She's trying to divide us.
SEVEN: They rely on you, yet you lack the skills necessary to ensure their survival.
LEADER: We've managed so far. We're Borg. You've forgotten what that means.
SEVEN: The unity of the Collective, common goals, the quest for perfection. I have not forgotten. But you don't need to remain drones to experience those things. Come back with me to Voyager.
LEADER: Thirty eight minutes. You're wasting time.
(An alarm sounds.)
ICHEB: Another maturation chamber is malfunctioning.
(The foetus is in distress.)
SEVEN: Its autonomic nervous system is failing.
LEADER: It's Borg. It will adapt.
MEZOTI: It's not adapting. Let Seven help.
SEVEN: We can modulate the stasis field to stabilise its functions, at least temporarily. Assist me. The field is degrading. We need to transport it into an incubation pod. Quickly.
(The twins do the transport. Seven opens the pod and picks up the baby. It struggles to breathe.)
MEZOTI: Why is it doing that?
SEVEN: Its respiratory system is impaired, and this incubation pod is malfunctioning. We must transport this infant to Voyager.
LEADER: No. The drone is part of our Collective.
ICHEB: Not if it dies.

[Cube - corridor]

KIM: Tetryon levels are rising. I'm getting closer.
TUVOK [OC]: The shield generator should be directly ahead.
KIM: I see it. The first charge is in place. Tuvok? Hello?
MEZOTI: You left these.
(She holds up Queen of Hearts.)
MEZOTI: I like her. She looks like Seven of Nine.
KIM: Is Seven your friend? You know, she's my friend, too. Maybe someday, we
MEZOTI: Your weapon won't work here. Dampening field.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: How long has it been since you lost contact?
TUVOK: Four or five minutes.
JANEWAY: His bio-signs?
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the Captain. Please report to Sickbay immediately.
JANEWAY: On my way. Keep looking for him.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: What's the emergency?
EMH: I thought you should see for yourself. Somebody left a bundle on our doorstep. I turned around and there she was, lying on a bio-bed.
JANEWAY: Seven must have beamed her here.
EMH: Good thing, too. A few more minutes and I wouldn't have been able to do anything for her. It's hard to believe she could grow up to be a drone.
(The baby starts to cry and the EMH picks her up.)
EMH: Hold her for a moment while I take some readings. Oh, I guess she just wanted to be held. Oh. The pathogen. I finished synthesizing it.
JANEWAY: Start working with Tuvok on a way to deploy the virus.
EMH: Captain, you don't seriously plan to use it?
JANEWAY: If I have to. Let's just hope your brothers and sisters don't force my hand.

[Maturation area]

SEVEN: You complain of delays then you interrupt my work.
LEADER: Can you identify this?
SEVEN: It's a plasma charge.
LEADER: You tried to deceive us.
(The children step aside to reveal an unconscious Kim.)
LEADER: Nanoprobes were injected into his bloodstream. He won't survive without medical attention. Call your Captain. Tell her to give us the deflector.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. I only need a few more minutes to repair the
LEADER: No more delays. No more deceptions. The deflector. Resistance is futile.

[Bridge]

LEADER [on viewscreen]: Comply.
JANEWAY: Return Harry Kim, then we'll talk.
LEADER [on viewscreen]: We've talked enough. Your requests are irrelevant. Comply or we'll assimilate the others.
JANEWAY: It'll take us at least an hour to dismantle the deflector and transfer the components.
LEADER [on viewscreen]: Now.
JANEWAY: I can't give it to you now. It's complex technology that's part of our ship. We can't simply remove it. And no amount of threats from you is going to change that.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: They've locked a tractor beam onto the deflector.
TORRES: They're trying to tear it off. Hull stress is increasing. Breaches on decks ten and eleven.
JANEWAY: Increase shield strength and randomise the harmonics.
TUVOK: They're adapting.

[Maturation area]

SEVEN: Even with Voyager's deflector, your efforts to return to the Hive will fail.
LEADER: They'll come for us.
SEVEN: No, they won't. The Borg received your message but chose to ignore it. They consider you irrelevant.
MEZOTI: Irrelevant?
ICHEB: We are damaged. They don't want us.
LEADER: Ignore her. It's another lie.
SEVEN: Their reply is in data grid four two six. Use decryption protocol theta three.
LEADER: Return to your station. It's another deception. She's manipulating us.
ICHEB: The transmission is authentic.
LEADER: It's a mistake.
SEVEN: The Collective does not tolerate imperfection.
LEADER: Then we'll assimilate more species. Prove we're worthy.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Hull stress is reaching critical levels.
JANEWAY: Reroute all emergency power to structural integrity.
TORRES: That'll buy us another minute at most.
TUVOK: Captain, I have found a fluctuation in their shield grid near a plasma duct. It's too intermittent to beam out the hostages, but we could use it to deploy the pathogen. Captain.
JANEWAY: Not yet.
TUVOK: There is no alternative.
JANEWAY: There's always an alternative. We just need to find it. Their tractor beam draws power from the same grid as their shield matrix. If we use the deflector to send a feedback pulse along the beam, it could disrupt their shields. Do it.
TORRES: Rerouting warp plasma. If this doesn't work it'll do more damage to us than the Cube.
JANEWAY: It'll work. Prepare to fire.

[Maturation area]

SEVEN: You have no future with the Borg. But you do with Voyager. A chance to reclaim your real lives.
LEADER: What do you know about real lives?
SEVEN: Does he speak for all of you? You should make your decisions yourself, as individuals.
ICHEB: They are sending a feedback pulse through our tractor beam. It's overloading our shield matrix.
LEADER: Adapt!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Their tractor beam is fluctuating. Their shields are dropping.
TORRES: I've got a partial lock on the away team. Boosting the confinement beam. I've got three of them.
TUVOK: Confirmed. Chakotay, Paris and Neelix are in Transporter room two.
JANEWAY: What about Seven and Harry?
TORRES: They must be in a section that's still shielded.
JANEWAY: Amplify the feedback pulse.

[Maturation area]

MEZOTI: The other captives are gone.
ICHEB: The shields around this chamber are failing. Instructions.
SEVEN: Lower your shields. Lower the shields!
(Seven goes to do it herself.)
LEADER: No!
(The Leader pulls Seven away from the control panel and puts the shields back up. Then he grabs an object and goes to hit Seven over the head with it. Icheb stops him.)
ICHEB: Leave her alone.
LEADER: Get back to your station. Do what I say.
ICHEB: What you say? I thought we were a Collective.
MEZOTI: One mind, one voice.
LEADER: I protected you. Gave you order.
ICHEB: Your order. Your rules.
LEADER: Their feedback pulse is overloading the induction grids.
SEVEN: This vessel will be destroyed. We must evacuate.
LEADER: No! Assist me.
(An explosion sends an electric charge through the Leader.)
SEVEN: You're damaged. Lie still.
LEADER: We have to resist. The Collective will come for us.
SEVEN: His cortical implants are depolarising. I can't help him.
(Mezoti kneels by her Leader.)
MEZOTI: We'll find a new home. You'll see.
LEADER: We are Borg.
SEVEN: Yes. We are Borg.
(The Leader deactivates, permanently.)
SEVEN: Lower the shields.
(Icheb complies.)   

Captain's log, supplemental. Harry's recovering in Sickbay, and the rest of the away team is safe and sound. As for the drones, the Doctor's removed most of their implants, leaving us with four very troubled children.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: We've sent out calls to any Brenari and Norcadian ships that might be in the vicinity, but we haven't gotten any responses so far, and we're still trying to figure out where the other two came from. It may take a while.
SEVEN: They could use the time. They have a great deal to learn.
JANEWAY: It might help if they had someone around who knew what they're up against.
SEVEN: I've never been responsible for children. Mister Neelix would be a wiser choice.
JANEWAY: From what I've seen, you're the one they've established a bond with. They'll be looking to you for guidance.
SEVEN: Perhaps I could help them avoid some of the obstacles I've encountered.

[Cargo Bay two]

MEZOTI: Do we have to regenerate now?
SEVEN: Yes, but first.
(She hands out PADDs.)
SEVEN: I was able to salvage your assimilation profiles. They include your names and some limited biographical data.
ICHEB: Icheb. My name was Icheb.
SEVEN: Your name is Icheb.
ICHEB: I remember now. It was my father's second name.
MEZOTI: My designation is Mezoti. It's a pretty name.
SEVEN: Yes it is, and it's all yours. Azan and Rebi. I'll tell you more about them tomorrow.
(She takes back the PADDs and the children get into their regeneration chambers.)
SEVEN: Computer. Decrease ambient lighting by sixty percent. Good night. Sweet dreams.


S6 E17
Spirit Folk
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 23 February 2000

[Fair Haven - street]
(We are back in Idyllic Olde Ireland. Paris is driving a very early horse-less carriage, and honking the horn constantly. He scares the sheep.)
PARIS: Get out of the way! Sorry.
SEAMUS: Tommy-me-boy, you're a little fast there.
(Paris crashes into barrels, knocking off a front wheel.)
SEAMUS: Did you hurt yourself, Tommy boy?
PARIS: I think I zigged when I should have zagged.
SEAMUS: Well, maybe you ought to stick to a horse and carriage. Still, she's a beauty. The world must be treating you well to afford such a thing.
PARIS: Er, just dipping into my inheritance.
SEAMUS: Oh, come into some money, did you? So who's passed on?
PARIS: Er, my grandfather on my mother's side. An aristocrat, God rest his soul.
SEAMUS: Sounds like he was a fine man. I'd drink a toast to him, if I had a shilling to me name.
PARIS: Here. It's on me.
SEAMUS: It'll take three pints to do a proper job, Tommy boy, and this isn't even enough for two.
PARIS: There, that's all I've got.
SEAMUS: You're a generous man. Care to join me at Sullivan's?
PARIS: Oh, I wish I could, but I'm on my way to Castle O'Dell.
SEAMUS: Night's coming. And they say when the sun goes down the Queen of the Faerie folk reclaims the castle.
PARIS: I'll give her your regards.
SEAMUS: Don't say I didn't warn you.
(Seamus walks away, then turns when he hears Paris speak.)
PARIS: Computer, replace damaged tyre.
SEAMUS: Saints preserve us.

[Sullivan's]

(Seamus is downing a large drink, with a crowd gathered around him.)
SEAMUS: I thought I would die from the shock of it.
MICHAEL: Now, Seamus, you're not a great one for telling things the way they were.
SEAMUS: I'll admit I've been known to add a little colour to stories from time to time to liven things up. But with God as my witness, I saw Tom Paris using unnatural powers to fix that wheel of his.
MICHAEL: Tommy boy practicing unholy magic. Next thing you'll be telling me is, you want to pay for your own drinks.
SEAMUS: Make fun if you like, but he was heading up to Castle O'Dell only an hour before dark.
FITZGERALD: Oh, leave it alone, Seamus. Can't one day go by without you making an ass of yourself?
MILO: But that Tom Paris is an odd one. Coming and going through town as if he built the place.
SEAMUS: That's right. And where does he go?
MILO: Oh, he's a shifty one. And for that matter, so are his friends.
MICHAEL: If you're talking about Katie O'Clare, you'd better watch your mouth.
MILO: Well, you know what they say, Sullivan. Birds of a feather.
MICHAEL: They also say superstition is the religion of fools.
SEAMUS: Killmannin, 1846.
VILLAGER: What?
SEAMUS: Old Patsy down in County Meath spoke of a band of spirit folk who came to Killmannin in '46.
MICHAEL: Killmannin. Did you ever hear of it, Doc?
FITZGERALD: No, this is the first.
MILO: Ah, you won't find it on any map. Not any more. 
SEAMUS: It was a town mot much different than Fair Haven. That is, until this group of strangers arrived. The townsfolk welcomed them with open arms. After all, a stranger is just a friend you haven't met yet. But they regretted their hospitality soon enough.
MILO: The cows stopped giving milk. The potatoes grew rotten in the ground.
(The Irish Famine, which drove so many people to emigrate, lasted from 1845 to 1852.)
SEAMUS: Then people started to go missing.
FITZGERALD: Oh, go on.
SEAMUS: It's true.
MICHAEL: What happened to them?
MILO: They were taken to the Other World.
SEAMUS: When winter came, and the nights grew longer, the entire town vanished. Every post, every nail, poof, into thin air, never to be seen again.
FITZGERALD: Are you suggesting that Fair Haven's going to go the way of Killmannin, just because we have a few new folks in town?
SEAMUS: I'm suggesting you keep an eye on Tom Paris and his cohorts. Not to mention that lady friend of yours.
MICHAEL: So Katie's some kind of goblin now, is that it?
SEAMUS: She's certainly cast a spell on you.
MILO: Well, if you ask me
MAN: Shush.
MICHAEL: Katie.
JANEWAY: Am I interrupting?
MICHAEL: Aw, just some nonsense. Seamus is up to his old tricks again.
MAGGIE: Good day to you, Katie.
MICHAEL: Oh, it's good to see you. What'll it be?
JANEWAY: The usual, please.
MICHAEL: Well, one cup of tea coming right up. Did you snatch any children on the way into town, Katie?
JANEWAY: What?
MICHAEL: Never mind. I missed your smile. What have you been doing with yourself?
JANEWAY: Nothing terribly exciting. Just helping my aunt and uncle out on the farm. They're not as spry as they used to be. Although, they've got a goat that could argue Mossie Donegan's talking pig under the table.
MICHAEL: You'll have to bring him into the bar the next time you're up. We'll arrange a debate.
JANEWAY: I'll see that I do. I hear they opened a nickelodeon in Dooleen. I thought it might be nice to go to a show.
MICHAEL: I've got to tend the bar. I wish you'd let me know you were coming, I would have made arrangements.
JANEWAY: That's all right. We can go some other time.
MICHAEL: No, I mean, you've already made the trip. It'd be a shame if you had to leave.
JANEWAY: Well, I could be convinced to stay, if you'd be up to a game of Rings. Let's go.

[Mess hall]

KIM: Computer, one dozen Broadway lilies.
PARIS: Something tells me that's not lunch.
KIM: I already ate.
PARIS: Ah. Who are they for?
KIM: A friend.
PARIS: Oh, and this friend wouldn't happen to be a lovely Irish lass, now, would she?
KIM: Aren't you due on the bridge?
PARIS: Ah, you'd better watch yourself, Harry. These country girls aren't as simple as you think. Maggie O'Halloran could be a little more than you can handle.
KIM: Heard about your little traffic accident.
PARIS: That was a clutch malfunction. It wasn't my fault.
TORRES: If you ask me, that whole programme is an accident waiting to happen. You've been running Fair Haven around the clock. Just yesterday, I had to replace three holo-emitters.
PARIS: I ran a full diagnostic this morning. Everything is fine.
TORRES: Whatever you say. But, when your quaint little seaside town starts to depolarise, don't come running to me.
KIM: If you'll excuse me, I'm late for a moonlight stroll.
PARIS: Are you sure you don't need a chaperone?
KIM: Not with your driving record.
PARIS: I think I know just what'll make his date just a little more interesting.
TORRES: Just don't blow out any more holo-emitters.

[Fair Haven - street at night]

(Paris is dodging in and out of the shadows, following Kim and Maggie. He also has two people following him.)
MILO: What are we doing out here, Seamus? Skulking about in the dark, spying on folks.
SEAMUS: What's the matter, Milo? You got a case of the willies?
MILO: Well, what if you're right? What if this Tom Paris is some kind of demon? If we're caught, he'll cast a spell on us.
SEAMUS: Then stop your squawking, or he'll catch us for sure. Come on, man. He's getting away.
KIM: A captain is only as good as his crew.
MAGGIE: It must be lonely out there on the sea with only the stars to guide you.
KIM: Sometimes, during the night watch, with the timbers creaking and the dark water stretching out as far as the eye can see, you can believe you're the only man in the world.
MAGGIE: Maybe you should think about settling down on dry land.
KIM: Oh, believe me, I do. As often as I think of you.
MAGGIE: Can I ask you something, Harry?
KIM: Of course.
MAGGIE: Would you like to hold my hand?
KIM: If you promise to hold mine back.
SEAMUS: Look. He's got some sort of contraption in his hand.
MILO: Maybe we're going about this the wrong way. We should go down to Saint Mary's and tell Father Mulligan the whole story.
SEAMUS: He's not going to listen to talk of the supernatural.
MILO: Och, if you fill his collection box, he'll listen to anything.
SEAMUS: That's true.
KIM: I thought you were promised to Ray Euan.
MAGGIE: Not anymore. Can I ask you something else, Harry?
KIM: Please.
MAGGIE: Would you like to kiss me?
KIM: Is that a trick question?
(Maggie changes into a cow.)
MILO: Holy mother of God!
(Paris is laughing.)
KIM: Tom! Don't you have anything better to do?
PARIS: Boy, she really turned on you.
KIM: Ha, ha, very funny. I could have been trampled.
PARIS: Relax, the holodeck safeties are on. There's nothing to worry about.
KIM: All right, all right. You've had your fun. Now change her back.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Paris and Kim. Report to the bridge.
PARIS: On our way.
KIM: Hey, what about Maggie?
PARIS: She'll be fine. Let her graze.
SEAMUS: Let her graze. Did you hear that?

[Saint Mary's - Sunday morning mass]

ALL: Amen.
EMH: Please be seated. I recently heard a tale of two farmers, who shall remain nameless for the sake of this sermon. It seems one broke the other's plough and refused to replace it. His come-uppance was served to him not by the hand of God, but by the other farmer, in the form of a clogged irrigation ditch. Now, do you think their disagreement stopped there? Of course not. They go on, just as the heathen did of old. After all, one spiteful act deserves another, right? Wrong! What these sinners have forgotten is that they are neighbours.
GRACE: He's in love with the sound of his own voice.
EMH: Whether we are man or woman, parent or child, flesh and blood, or photons and force fields. It has been said.
GRACE: On the other hand, perhaps he's been nipping at the sacramental wine.
EMH: And as such, our community is everything. It is our world, and we are a part of it, just as a branch is part of a tree. Do you see branches tearing leaves off one another? No! Do you see roots hoarding water from the trunk? No! Do you see
(Mooo!)
MILO: Easy, Maggie. Whoa. Easy now.
SEAMUS: Father.
EMH: Did you make a wrong turn on your way to the milking shed?
SEAMUS: Weren't nothing like that at all, Father. Something terrible's happened.
EMH: What now?
MILO: This was Maggie O'Halloran. The spirits have turned her into a cow.
GRACE: Maggie O'Halloran's been eaten by a cow?.
EMH: Did you see these spirits?
SEAMUS: That we did. Tom Paris, and Harry Kim.
EMH: I hate to disappoint you, but it sounds as though you've been the victim of a practical joke. Tom Paris is a known prankster.
MILO: Oh, it was unholy magic, I tell you. We saw it with our own eyes.
EMH: When did this alleged transformation take place?
SEAMUS: Last night.
EMH: Well then, that settles it. This couldn't possibly be Maggie O'Halloran. I saw Maggie this morning on my way into church. She was at her cart tending her flowers. She's probably there now. Well, I, I think that's enough excitement for one morning. This mass is over. Go in peace. Er, leave the cow.
MILO: Oh, all right, Father. Excuse us, Maggie.
SEAMUS: Take care, Maggie.

[Street]

(Maggie reappears by her flower cart just before Seamus and Milo come around the corner.)
SEAMUS: Maggie!
MAGGIE: Well, good morning, boys.
SEAMUS: Is everything all right? You're looking a little out of sorts this morning.
MAGGIE: Yes. Well, I must admit I'm not quite myself today.
SEAMUS: Oh?
(They help her to sit on a nearby bench.)
MAGGIE: Well, this is going to sound very odd but I feel like I just woke up from the strangest dream, and I don't remember going to sleep.
MILO: You're right, that does sound odd.
SEAMUS: Do you remember anything about last night?
MAGGIE: Well, I was out with Harry Kim. He chatted me up at the Ox and Lamb, and we were off on a walk before I knew it.
MILO: What did you do on your walk?
MAGGIE: We talked. What kind of a girl do you think I am?
SEAMUS: Now, Maggie, we weren't implying anything.
MILO: No.
SEAMUS: Do you recall anything else about the evening?
MILO: Er, did anything out of the ordinary happen? Anything at all?
MAGGIE: I don't remember.
SEAMUS: Well, tell us about the dream, then.
MAGGIE: Oh, it was most unpleasant. I was walking around town with nothing but a bell around my neck. Well, somehow I wound up in church. Everyone was staring at me. You were there, Seamus, and you too, Milo. The next thing I knew, I was tending my flowers just as you boys walked up.
SEAMUS: Well, that's quite a story, Maggie.
MILO: Can we get a quick one?
SEAMUS: Maybe just a wee taste.

[Sullivan's]

MILO: So, I said to young Harry, I'm not one for rainy days and grey skies. As soon as the words were out of my mouth, he called up the spirits to do his bidding. A second later, there wasn't a cloud in the sky.
EDITH: I was up near Ballahick Farm with little Mary. She was playing near the well. Somehow, she lost her footing and fell in. I was so frightened I didn't know what to do. So I ran to the Colbys to get some help. But when we returned, there was Mary in the meadow talking with Katie O'Clare. There wasn't a scratch on her. Katie said I must've been mistaken when I saw her fall. There was no mistake.
GRACE: I saw something strange, too. Well, I hesitated to say anything for fear you'd think me mad. But after listening to your stories today I feel you've a right to know.
MILO: Well? Speak up.
GRACE: Last Sunday, after his sermon, I saw Father Mulligan vanish into thin air.
MILO: He's one of them, right enough. Father Mulligan, Tommy boy, Katie and the rest. They're spirit folk!
MAGGIE: Well, what about that Neelix fellow who runs the Ox and Lamb? Well, if he doesn't look like a leprechaun I don't know who does.
SEAMUS: They're all probably up at Castle O'Dell, conspiring against us.
MICHAEL: Now, that's enough! I can't deny there's been some unusual goings on, but what are you proposing? That we run Katie and her friends out of town? Or maybe we should line them up in front of a firing squad. Is that what you want? These people have been our neighbours. We've become friends. Let's not forget that.
SEAMUS: Well, we can't just sit here and do nothing while they take over Fair Haven.
MICHAEL: I'm not saying we do nothing, but let's go about this like civilised people.
MILO: What do you suggest, we sit them down and discuss it over tea?

[Sullivan's - after hours]

MICHAEL: You're looking lovelier than ever, Katie.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
(He hands her a small packet.)
MICHAEL: Open it.
JANEWAY: The Faerie Queene by Edmund Spenser. Thank you, Michael.
MICHAEL: It's the longest poem in the English language, and the first to use a nine line stanza.
JANEWAY: I'll start reading it tonight. I love epic poetry.
MICHAEL: Really? I didn't know that. It seems as if there's a lot of things I don't know about you. I thought you'd want to know there's been some talk about you and your friends. Strange things have been happening around town. Folk are saying you're to blame.
JANEWAY: What kind of strange things?
MICHAEL: People using unholy magic. Vanishing into thin air. Changing the weather.
JANEWAY: By any chance would all this have anything to do with your reading suggestion?
MICHAEL: As a matter of fact.
JANEWAY: Don't tell me. They say I'm the Faerie Queene.
MICHAEL: Frankly, they could tell me you're the devil himself and I wouldn't care.
JANEWAY: I'll try not to take that personally.
MICHAEL: The sad truth of the matter is, I don't know who you are.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
MICHAEL: You've been lying to me, Katie. I've been doing some checking with friends of mine in County Clare. Seems nobody's heard of you there.
JANEWAY: It's a big county.
MICHAEL: And I've got a lot of friends. You've been evasive from the day we met. I was a fool not to see it. Where do you go when you leave here? There've been times I wanted to talk to you, tell you about my day, about a book I'd read, just to say hello. But I can't, because I don't know where to find you. What're you hiding, Katie?
JANEWAY: I'll admit I have misled you about some things, but never about anything important. And I wasn't lying when I said I care about you.
MICHAEL: I wish I could believe that.
JANEWAY: You can. I didn't want to deceive you, but under the circumstances I had no choice.
MICHAEL: What circumstances?
JANEWAY: Michael, there are things about me you may not be able to understand.
MICHAEL: Try me. Who are you, Katie? Where are you really from? The truth.
JANEWAY: Computer, end programme.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: How did he know? Those are questions no holodeck character should be asking. What exactly did you do to that programme?
PARIS: Well, I, I just added a few bells and whistles to make the characters more realistic. Nothing too fancy.
JANEWAY: Well, something's gone wrong. The people of Fair Haven aren't simple country folk anymore.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: It looks like we've worn out our welcome.
PARIS: It's the first time we've tried running a holodeck programme non-stop. We're lucky it lasted this long.
TORRES: There are damaged subroutines in all of the character files.
PARIS: So much for my open door policy.
JANEWAY: Shut it down. And repair the damaged systems.

[Holodeck research lab]

KIM: As I recall, everything was fine until someone started turning people into cows.
PARIS: Computer, display Fair Haven character Michael Sullivan.
(Michael fritzes before solidifying then looking around.)
KIM: Tom.
MICHAEL: Where am I? Where's Katie?
PARIS: He shouldn't be aware that he's in the lab.
KIM: I've isolated the damaged subroutines.
MICHAEL: I said, where the hell am I?
PARIS: It's all right, Michael. Take it easy.
MICHAEL: What is this place?
PARIS: Try to relax.
MICHAEL: If someone doesn't tell me where I am, I'm going to start busting heads.
KIM: His perceptual filters are malfunctioning.
MICHAEL: What're you saying? What's a perceptual filter?
PARIS: It's, it's okay. We're trying to help you.
KIM: There. Look at these. Those are the algorithms designed to keep him oblivious to anything outside the programme's parameters.
PARIS: They're offline .
KIM: Give me a minute. That should do it.
PARIS: How are you feeling, Michael?
MICHAEL: Never better. Harry, Liam's been looking for you. You're the only man in four counties to beat him at arm wrestling. He wants a rematch.
KIM: Tell him he's got one.
MICHAEL: I'll do that.
PARIS: Ha. Well, that was easy enough.
KIM: Yeah. Unfortunately it looks like all the other characters have the same malfunction.
PARIS: Don't tell me we're going to have to go through every one of them?
KIM: If we reactivate the programme, use the primary control port in Sullivan's pub, we could reset all the perceptual filters with a single command sequence.
(Michael is listening carefully.)
PARIS: I guess we'll be seeing you later.
MICHAEL: Looking forward to it.
PARIS: Computer, resume Fair Haven programme in Holodeck one, and transfer Michael Sullivan back to his bar.

[Street]

(Michael runs out of his bar and accosts a boy playing with a stick and hoop.)
MICHAEL: Danny. Danny.
DANNY: Yes?
MICHAEL: Come here. Fetch Doc Fitzgerald. Tell him to meet me in the church. Go on. Hurry, lad!

[Bridge]

PARIS: We thought we'd reset his perceptual filters until we took a closer look at his subroutines. Turns out he was just playing along.
JANEWAY: Never underestimate an Irish hologram.
KIM: We'll have to reprogramme Michael when we do the others.
JANEWAY: Let's just hope he didn't share the experience with too many others.
KIM: Got it. These resequenced algorithms should do the trick.
JANEWAY: Good luck.
(Paris and Kim leave.)
JANEWAY: What the hell was I thinking?
CHAKOTAY: A minor malfunction.
JANEWAY: Well, that's the problem. I've got a boyfriend who malfunctions.
CHAKOTAY: Tom and Harry'll fix him.
JANEWAY: And if they can't?
CHAKOTAY: One piece of advice you've always given me. Tell the truth.
JANEWAY: Hate to break the news to you, Michael, but I'm a starship captain and you're a three hundred deciwatt holodeck programme. I couldn't do it.
CHAKOTAY: In that case, you'll have to get creative.

[Saint Mary's]

MICHAEL: I'm not a superstitious man, Doc, but I've been seeing things I can't explain.
FITZGERALD: You're not the only one. At first I thought we had an epidemic on our hands, but this is no fever.
MICHAEL: No, it's not. Last night I was talking to Katie, and the next thing I knew I was being spirited away to God knows where.
FITZGERALD: They took you? Where?
MICHAEL: Maybe it was the Other World. I don't know. Tom Paris was there. Young Harry, too.
FITZGERALD: What did they want with you?
MICHAEL: I'm not sure. They were talking about me like I wasn't there. Saying things about Fair Haven. That we knew too much about them.
FITZGERALD: Oh, Lord.
MICHAEL: And that's not all. They were saying something about coming to the pub tonight to change the town somehow.
FITZGERALD: What does that mean?
MICHAEL: I'm damned if I know.
FITZGERALD: How did you get away?
MICHAEL: With all the talk about us knowing too much about them, I figured that if I pretended nothing was out of the ordinary, they might let me go. And sure enough, that's exactly what they did.
FITZGERALD: I wonder if this is how things started in Killmannin back in '46.
MICHAEL: I'm not sure what they have in mind, but we'd better be prepared.

[Sullivan's - night]

(Paris and Kim enter in period costume, and carrying lanterns.)
KIM: We're in luck. Nobody's home.
(They go to the holodeck control panel by the bar. Grace watches them through the window.)

[Saint Mary's]

(The rest of the townsfolk are gathered.)
SEAMUS: If we're going to fight them, we've got to use the right ammunition! Biddy Ramsey gave me this before she passed on. She knew a thing or two about faerie magic and how to fight it. Everything she learned, she learned from this book.
MICHAEL: I doubt if it says anything about using rifles.
MILO: You'd be surprised how many things a bullet will stop.
MICHAEL: I don't like this one bit. Guns, Seamus.
FITZGERALD: Under normal circumstances, I'd agree with you, Michael, but these aren't normal circumstances.
MILO: Maybe you'd still like us to be acting civilised. Where did that get you before? A ticket to the Other World, that's what.
FITZGERALD: We don't know what the spirit folk have in store for us.
MICHAEL: That's just it. We don't know much about anything, do we? And we've got Milo here acting like a holy war has been declared.
SEAMUS: Relax, Sullivan. The rifles are only a last resort. Besides, we've got incantations, which are more lethal to spirit folk than any weapons forged by man. That's how we're going to force them back into their realm. And we've got red twine to stop them from changing shape.
(While the men stand around and talk, the women are busy.)
MILO: And don't forget about the ash berries.
SEAMUS: Ash berries, right. That's how you keep them from using their powers against you. They've been walking amongst us for weeks now, pretending to be our friends, lying to us, making mischief. What's next?
MILO: Yes, what is next, Seamus?
SEAMUS: I for one am not going to stand by and let them run roughshod over our town.
ALL: No!
SEAMUS: We can't rest until we've driven every one of them out.
(Grace runs in.)
GRACE: They're here! Tom Paris and Harry Kim. They're in Sullivan's right now.
SEAMUS: Who's with me?

[Sullivan's]

(The mob rush in, shouting, and put a net over Paris and Kim.)
PARIS: Seamus, let us explain. You're making a mistake.
MILO: The only mistake we made was letting you into Fair Haven. What's that?
SEAMUS: Shoot it!
PARIS: No, wait, wait. That's a delicate piece of technology.
(Milo shoots the panel.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Holodeck controls and safety protocols are offline.
MILO: A voice from the Other World.
COMPUTER: Emergency overrides are malfunctioning.
(It gets shot again.)
PARIS: Computer, freeze programme!
COMPUTER: Sixty two percent compliance.
(The net disappears, and a lot of the characters are frozen.)
SEAMUS: They're getting away! After them!

[Street]

PARIS: Computer, exit!
(The arch flickers briefly then disappears again. The mob catches them, and drags them away.)

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Gunfire?
CHAKOTAY: Two shots directly at the primary controls. We can't deactivate the programme or get the safeties back online.
JANEWAY: Where are Tom and Harry now?
TORRES: Saint Mary's. Looks like some of your parishioners are holding them captive.
NEELIX: We can't blame them for being frightened. They must think we're some kind of sorcerers.
CHAKOTAY: Well, we could use a little magic right now, because that's about the only way we're going to get our people back.
JANEWAY: Transporters?
CHAKOTAY: Too many stray photons. We can't get a lock.
SEVEN: We should enter the holodeck with a security team and take them by force.
TUVOK: Need I remind you the holo-characters have weapons as well. We'd be risking armed conflict.
TORRES: Well, then let's just pull the plug. Cut power to the hologrid.
NEELIX: That would purge the programme from our database.
TORRES: Exactly.
NEELIX: But we'd lose Fair Haven and all its people.
SEVEN: They're not people. They're holograms.
JANEWAY: And they weren't programmed to be violent. I don't believe they'd harm anyone.
TORRES: You can't be certain.
JANEWAY: Well, I am certain, and I'd like to find a less drastic solution.
TORRES: With all due respect, Captain. Michael can be reprogrammed. Tom and Harry can't.
JANEWAY: One problem at a time, B'Elanna. The people of Fair Haven may not be real, but our feelings toward them are. I won't destroy these relationships if we can find another way. Now, if we could attach transport enhancers onto Tom and Harry, would that be enough to cut through the interference?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Good. Then we just need to get someone close to them. Doctor.
EMH: A few words of inspiration should get me within reach.
SEVEN: I suggest you use your mobile emitter. It'll isolate you from the malfunctions.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Stand by to cut power to the hologrid in case things get out of hand.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, I believe your flock needs tending.

[Saint Mary's]

(Seamus is up in the pulpit reading from Biddie's book on incantations whilst a salt circle is drawn around the chairs Paris and Kim are tied to. Other men are flicking holy water at them.)
SEAMUS: Ex labis caelestium sanctorum super ad aures atrorum larvarum mentientium. From the lips of the heavenly saints above, to the ears of the dark and lying spirits, may your spectral forms be cast back to the Other World. Back to the Other World! There must be some trick to these incantations.
(Milo puts a tool box on the pulpit edge. It contains a small PADD.)
MILO: What do you make of this, Seamus?
KIM: We should just tell them the truth.
PARIS: Oh, good idea, Harry. Do you want to tell them they're only holograms, or should I?
SEAMUS: I see you left your box of charms at Sullivan's. I believe this is the talisman you used on Maggie. Maybe we should turn them into cows.
PARIS: No, no, there's been a misunderstanding. We are not spirit folk.
MILO: I think we've heard enough of your lies, Tommy boy. I say we tie them up to the lamp post in the square and show them how spirit folk were dealt with in the olden days.
MICHAEL: Leave them alone. It's bad enough you've got them trussed up like Christmas turkeys. There's no need for foolish threats.
MILO: You'd better watch whose side you're on. You're not above suspicion yourself.
MICHAEL: Oh, so we're going to start turning on one another now, is that it?
MILO: We are, if you're choosing them over your own people.
EMH: Sinners! Sinners, all of you. You have the audacity to turn a house of worship into a prison? This is where we gather to pledge our love for our fellow man, not condemnation. You should all be ashamed of yourselves.
SEAMUS: Quite a rousing sermon, Father, but I'm afraid you're not going to find too many takers tonight.
MILO: Not after your little vanishing act. It seems Grace Declan saw you disappear into thin air on Sunday.
SEAMUS: Aye, I'd say that sounds a wee bit unholy. You're in league with them, aren't you? Tie him up with the others.
EMH: Listen to yourselves. You're letting confusion and fear get the best of you. Doctor to Janeway.
SEAMUS: What's this?
(The transport enhancers.)
EMH: Fire and brimstone don't seem to be working.
MILO: Look here, Seamus. Another talisman.
(The mobile emitter.)
SEAMUS: Quick, get it off of him.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Beam him out of there.
TUVOK: His program's been disengaged from the mobile emitter.

[Saint Mary's]

SEAMUS: And what were you planning on doing with these?
KIM: Those are the devices that will allow us to leave. You just put them on our coats and we'll be on our way.
MILO: You'd like us to believe that, wouldn't you.
SEAMUS: Something tells me these are spirit charms. We pin them on you and God knows what powers you'll have.
MICHAEL: This is no charm. It's some kind of a machine.
MILO: It doesn't matter. They won't be telling us the truth about any of it.
SEAMUS: Oh, they'll tell us the truth, all right. There's more than one way to pluck the wings off a pixie. We'll induce a trance. Give me Biddy Ramsey's spoon. Keep your eyes on the silverware, Father.
(Seamus swings the spoon in front of him.)
EMH: I hope you know this is blasphemous. Oh, this is ridiculous. I can't be hypnotised.
(He falls under the spell of the swinging silver spoon.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I can't isolate the Doctor's programme.
JANEWAY: He's been integrated into the Fair Haven matrix. He's vulnerable.

[Saint Mary's]

SEAMUS: Tell us the words. How do we banish the spirit folk to the Other World?
EMH: There is no Other World. Only Voyager.
MILO: Voyager?
EMH: Federation starship, Intrepid class, registry number NCC74656.
MICHAEL: You're from some sort of vessel?
EMH: Mmm hmm.
SEAMUS: He's talking gibberish.
MICHAEL: Maybe he's not. This ship of yours. Is that where you took me?
SEAMUS: Look here. It says if you can get a spirit to reveal his true name you'll render yourself impervious to his charms.
MILO: What is your true name?
EMH: I haven't decided on one yet.
MICHAEL: Katie's on that ship, isn't she? Tell me where to find her so I can get to the bottom of this.
PARIS: I'm sorry, Michael. I can't do that.
MICHAEL: Then I guess I'm asking the wrong person. (to EMH) Tell me how to get to Voyager.
MILO: What are you doing, Sullivan?
SEAMUS: No man who's gone to the Other World has ever come back.
MICHAEL: I have. How do I get there?
(The EMH slowly turns his head to look at the mobile emitter in Michael's hand.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, the mobile emitter has been activated.
JANEWAY: Lock onto the signal.
(Michael is beamed to the bridge.)
MICHAEL: I had a cousin went to America. He saw some strange things, but nothing like this.
JANEWAY: You're not in America. This is a starship. It's called
MICHAEL: Voyager. I know.
TUVOK: Should I transfer him back to the holodeck?
JANEWAY: No. My name isn't Katie O'Clare. It's Kathryn Janeway. Captain Kathryn Janeway. It's going to be difficult to explain. Maybe it's best if I just show you.
MICHAEL: You've seen my world. It seems fair that I should have a chance to see yours.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?

[Corridor]

MICHAEL: So, this really is a starship. But how can that be possible?
JANEWAY: Have you ever read The Time Machine, by H. G. Wells?
MICHAEL: Are you telling me you've travelled back through time?
JANEWAY: In a manner of speaking.
(They pass two crewmen.)
MICHAEL: That's Patrick Gibson and his cousin, Frank. They work on the wharf. They're in my pub every Saturday night for the rings tournament.
JANEWAY: You'll find a lot of familiar faces on Voyager. We've been visiting your town for months.
MICHAEL: Why?
JANEWAY: We're explorers.
MICHAEL: I'm not letting you off the hook that easy, Kathryn Janeway. There must be more interesting places to explore than Fair Haven.
JANEWAY: Can you think of any place you'd rather be?
MICHAEL: I guess that leaves but one question. How long are you planning on staying?
JANEWAY: Well that depends if we're still welcome.
MICHAEL: My door is always open. But you're the captain of a starship, I'm a barkeep.
JANEWAY: Just because we're from different worlds doesn't mean we can't care for each other.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: The situation has escalated.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The townspeople have started to pile kindling at the base of three lampposts

[Corridor]

TUVOK [OC]: In the village square.
JANEWAY: Stand by.

[Saint Mary's]

SEAMUS: Take them outside now.
(Michael and Janeway enter. Milo points his rifle at them.)
MILO: Stay back.
FITZGERALD: What are you doing?
MILO: That might not be Michael Sullivan. A demon could have taken his shape.
MICHAEL: It's me, Milo. I've been to the place they call Voyager, and I've brought Katie back with me.
JANEWAY: I've come in hopes that we can resolve our differences peacefully.
MILO: Peacefully? I'm sure that's what you told the people of Killmannin.
MICHAEL: They had nothing to do with what happened in Killmannin, if it happened at all.
JANEWAY: We're truly sorry for what's happened here. We never meant to frighten anyone.
MICHAEL: Seamus, you were right about one thing. They are quite different from us, but not in so many ways that we can't be friends.
JANEWAY: And we're not spirit folk. Some of our technology may seem like magic, but I assure you it's not.
MICHAEL: Katie showed me things that are beyond our comprehension. They have machines that I can't begin to describe, but not once have they used them against us. Quite the opposite, in fact. Milo, you said you didn't like the rain and young Harry Kim made it go away. Edith Mulchaey herself said that Katie O'Clare pulled her daughter from the well and out of harm's way. These are not the deeds of spirits and mischief makers.
SEAMUS: But they turned Maggie into a cow.
PARIS: That'll never happen again, I swear.
MICHAEL: There, you see? We have his word, and if we can't trust a man's word in Fair Haven, what can we trust?
JANEWAY: If you want, we'll leave and never bother you again. But we'd prefer to find some way to keep our friendship alive.
(Janeway takes the mobile emitter from Michael and puts it on the EMH's arm. He comes out of his trance.)
EMH: Captain?
MICHAEL: I, for one, would like to keep playing rings with Harry and Tom, keep having Neelix's steamed cabbage at the Ox and Lamb, keep taking walks with Katie. Let's not turn our backs on these good people. If we do, we're only punishing ourselves. Just because we're from different worlds doesn't mean we can't care for each other.

[Engineering]

TORRES: If we're going to retain the programme, we can't keep running it around the clock.
PARIS: Not until we've repaired these damaged systems.
TORRES: Not ever. We've pushed the limits of holotechnology and they pushed back. If we try it again, we're just asking for trouble.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we're going to have to close your open door policy.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: What about the characters. Should I purge their memories of the last few days?
JANEWAY: No, leave them.
EMH: They think we're spacemen from the future. It won't exactly be like old times.
JANEWAY: We learn to accept alien species with new technologies. Let's hope the people of Fair Haven will learn to accept us. But before we shut down the programme and begin repairs, what do you say to one more round at Sullivan's? My treat.

[Fair Haven]

MILO: You may be from the moon, Tommy boy, but I've got three shillings that says I can still whip you at rings.
PARIS: Oh, you're on.
MAGGIE: Hello, Harry.
PARIS: I'll catch up with you later.
SEAMUS: Tommy boy! I've been told there's a pot of gold somewhere in Glen Abbey. Would you be able to find it with one of those fancy machines of yours?
PARIS: Just follow the rainbow, Seamus.
SEAMUS: Rainbow, eh?
KIM: I didn't think you'd ever speak to me again.
MAGGIE: Well, I suppose I can forgive and forget. It's not that often you meet a handsome young man from outer space.
(Janeway gives Michael a packet.)
MICHAEL: What's this, Christmas come early?
JANEWAY: It has for you. Open it.
MICHAEL: A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, by Mark Twain. I've read some of his books, but not this one.
JANEWAY: It's about two people from different times who fall in love, among other things.
MICHAEL: Sounds familiar. Maybe I have read it. Thank you, Katie. Or Kathryn now, is it?
JANEWAY: Och.
MICHAEL: They say if you know a spirit's true name that it renders you impervious against her charm. Do you think there's any truth in that?
JANEWAY: Not a word.
MICHAEL: I'm glad to hear it.


S6 E18
Ashes to Ashes
Stardate: 53679.4
Original Airdate: 1 March 2000

[Kobali shuttle]
(An alien shuttle is under attack.It's bald, grey-skinned female pilot talks to her computer.)
BALLARD: Tam'vitte. Me'iote rel mestal.
COMPUTER: Mestal te'iote senve.
BALLARD: Siote ven'suil. Bekta!
(Two well places weapons shots disable her pursuer.)
BALLARD: Tam'vitte. Me'iote sendaya Voyager. Federation Starship Voyager. If you can hear me, please respond.

[Astrometrics lab]

(A wall monitor says Incoming Message. Young Mezoti, the former Borg, presses a button.)
BALLARD [OC]: If you can hear me, please respond. Voyager, please respond.

[Kobali Shuttle]

BALLARD: Come on, Voyager. I know you're there.

[Astrometrics lab]

MEZOTI: Hello?

[Kobali Shuttle]

BALLARD: Voyager? Are you receiving this transmission?

[Astrometrics lab]

MEZOTI: My designation is Mezoti.

[Kobali Shuttle]

BALLARD: You sound a little young to be working the comm.

[Astrometrics lab]

MEZOTI: I'm eight.

[Kobali Shuttle]

BALLARD: I see. Are there any grown-ups I could speak to?
MEZOTI [OC]: My species is six eight nine.

[Astrometrics lab]

MEZOTI: Norcadian. What species are you?

[Kobali Shuttle]

BALLARD: That's a complicated question.

[Astrometrics lab]

MEZOTI: Explain.
BALLARD [OC]: I don't know how long I can keep this channel open.

[Kobali Shuttle]

BALLARD: I need you to patch me through to Captain Janeway.

[Astrometrics lab]

MEZOTI: I'll try, but my height may be insufficient.
(She is right. In trying to reach up to the top of the screen, she rests her hand on another console and cuts off the transmission.)

[Kobali shuttle]

BALLARD: Hello? Voyager?

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Mezoti, you are not authorised to be in here.
MEZOTI: Are you going to report me to the captain?
TUVOK: Considering this is your first offence, a warning will suffice.
SEVEN: What were my instructions?
MEZOTI: To wait in the Cargo Bay until you returned.
SEVEN: Why didn't you comply?
TUVOK: You left the children unsupervised.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres required my assistance in Engineering. I was gone for less than ten minutes.
ICHEB: We told her not to deviate from your instructions. She wouldn't listen.
TUVOK: When the captain asked you to take charge of these children, you assured her that you could maintain order.
SEVEN: Controlling them is proving more difficult than I anticipated. They're highly unpredictable.
TUVOK: Meditation helps Vulcan children to control their emotions. You might consider
(Mezoti is using the console again.)
SEVEN: Mezoti!
MEZOTI: I'm trying to talk to the woman.
SEVEN: What woman?
MEZOTI: The one transmitting from spatial grid two three six nine.
SEVEN: She's made contact with a small ship approximately three light years from here.
TUVOK: Alien vessel, this is the starship Voyager. Respond.
BALLARD [OC]: Tuvok? It's you, isn't it?
TUVOK: This is Lieutenant Commander Tuvok.
BALLARD [OC]: Sounds like someone got promoted. I want to hear all about it, but first I need to speak to Captain Janeway.

[Bridge]

BALLARD [on viewscreen]: You're a sight for sore eyes, Captain. You, too, Harry.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, but do we know you?
BALLARD [on viewscreen]: I'm Ensign Lyndsay Ballard. I was a member of your crew. Of course, I'm not surprised you don't recognise me.
JANEWAY: I don't know who you are, but I'm not amused. Ensign Ballard died almost
BALLARD [on viewscreen]: It was on Stardate 51563. I can't blame you for being sceptical, Captain, but if you let me come aboard, I can explain everything.
JANEWAY: We'll beam you to Sickbay.
BALLARD [on viewscreen]: I'm sure you'll want me behind a level ten force field.
JANEWAY: No offence.
BALLARD [on viewscreen]: None taken. I'm just glad to be home.
CHAKOTAY: Captain? What do you think?
JANEWAY: She seems to have intimate knowledge of this ship and its crew. I think we should find out who she is.
KIM: Captain, I'd like to come with you. I was very close to Lyndsay, and if somehow it's her, I'll know.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH scans their visitor then walks through the forcefield.)
BALLARD: Harry and I were on our way to a class M planet in the Vyntadi Expanse to recover dilithium ore we'd detected a few days earlier. When we landed, we realised it was a trap set by a Hirogen hunting party. They'd reconfigured a power cell to give off false dilithium readings.
KIM: That's exactly what happened.
JANEWAY: Go on.
BALLARD: Harry and I headed back to the shuttle. We were ten feet away when I was hit with a neural disrupter. Harry said my injury wasn't that bad. He always was a terrible liar.
KIM: I tried to get Lyndsay back to Voyager but she was already dead. We buried her in space.
JANEWAY: Go on with your story.
BALLARD: I woke up on a ship, in a stasis chamber surrounded by aliens. They told me they'd used their technology to reanimate me. I didn't believe them when they said I'd died, but they showed me visual scans of my own corpse lying in the torpedo casing I'd been buried in. The Kobali said I'd been drifting for weeks.
JANEWAY: Kobali?
BALLARD: If you ever met them, you'd remember. They look just like this. After the reanimation process, they spent months altering my DNA. They were constantly scanning me, injecting me.
KIM: Just to make you look like one of them?
BALLARD: That's how they procreate. They salvage the dead of other races. I was given a Kobali name and placed with a family to help me acclimate.
JANEWAY: You were a prisoner.
BALLARD: At first. I wanted to contact you, to tell you I was safe, but the Kobali wouldn't let me. They said you were part of my kyn'steya, my, my past life, and that I needed to forget you. All of you. So I spent two years letting my new family think I'd accepted them. When I finally earned their trust, I stole a shuttle and started looking for Voyager. That was six months ago. They've been chasing me ever since.
EMH: In spite of her appearance, I'm detecting traces of human DNA. I've compared them with the genetic samples from Ensign Ballard's file. They match.
JANEWAY: It's certainly a convincing story.
BALLARD: But your Starfleet training is telling you to consider all the possibilities. Maybe I'm some sort of hybrid clone, or telepath who accessed Ensign Ballard's memory somehow? Believe me, I was suspicious myself at first, but I am Lyndsay Ballard.
JANEWAY: Until we find evidence to the contrary, welcome home.
(Janeway lowers the forcefield and shakes Ballard's hand.)
KIM: Captain, could you give us a minute?
JANEWAY: Doctor.
(Janeway and the EMH go into his office.)
KIM: So it's really you?
BALLARD: In the flesh, so to speak.
(Kim hugs her.)
BALLARD: I've missed you, too.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: I know you're all as eager as I am to welcome Ensign Ballard back. She's a fine officer, who's shown a lot of courage and determination over the past few years. And we're lucky to have her with us again. Let's do everything we can to make her feel at home.
NEELIX: Tom and I have already taken the liberty of removing Lyndsay's personal effects from storage.
TORRES: And whenever you're ready, your old shift is waiting for you in Engineering.
BALLARD: Thanks, Lieutenant.
CHAKOTAY: Before we get ahead of ourselves, let's not forget the Kobali are still out there.
JANEWAY: It seems they want her back as much as we want to keep her. We'll need to take precautions in case they track her to Voyager.
TUVOK: I've run preliminary scans on the Kobali shuttle. I believe I can adapt our systems to counter a possible attack.
JANEWAY: Very good. Well, if there's no further business.
(The meeting breaks up.)
BALLARD: Thank you for saying those nice things about me.
JANEWAY: You seem surprised.
BALLARD: To be honest, I never thought you noticed me.
JANEWAY: My mistake.

[Corridor]

BALLARD: So, you still playing the clarinet?
KIM: Actually, I've taken up the saxophone.
BALLARD: Ambitious. I bet you're good at it.
KIM: You always were my biggest fan.
BALLARD: Please, no past tense.
KIM: Sorry. This is a little strange for me.
BALLARD: Really? It's been a perfectly normal day for me.

[Turbolift]

KIM: Deck two.
BALLARD: It just so happens that hearing you play music again is number twenty six on my list.
KIM: List?
BALLARD: Something I made up to pass the time while I was away. I tried to think of everything I would do if I got back to Voyager, including some things I wasn't able to accomplish the first time I was here.
KIM: Like showing up for duty shifts on time?
BALLARD: That's number twenty seven.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix and Naomi are playing Kadis-kot. Seven brings in the junior Collective.)
NAOMI: They're here.
NEELIX: Ah. Why don't you and I have a cup of tea while the children play?
SEVEN: Thank you, but they require my supervision.
NAOMI: I like your braid.
MEZOTI: I could show you how to do it.
SEVEN: Mezoti.
NEELIX: Something wrong?
SEVEN: I've allotted one hour for recreational activity. There's no time for irrelevant conversation.
MEZOTI: It's not irrelevant.
SEVEN: Adhering to our schedule will allow us to use our time more efficiently. We'll be able to participate in
MEZOTI: A wider variety of activities.
SEVEN: Fun will now commence.
NAOMI: Green. Grid three thirteen.
(The twins look at each other for a few moments.)
AZAN: Counter. Grid ten.
(Naomi beckons Neelix over.)
NAOMI: They're cheating.
NEELIX: How?
MEZOTI: Azan is using his neural interface to share information.
SEVEN: Is this true? You will exercise punishment protocol nine alpha.
(Azan and Rebi leave the table. Icheb stands.)
ICHEB: If they cannot participate, neither will I.
SEVEN: You are encouraging disorder.
ICHEB: And you never let us do what we want.
(Icheb knocks the counters onto the floor.)
SEVEN: You will exercise punishment protocol nine alpha.
ICHEB: No, I won't.

[Ballard's quarters]

KIM: There you go.
BALLARD: I can't believe you saved all this.
KIM: Tuvok thought I should recycle everything, but I just couldn't bring myself to do it.
BALLARD: My skates and I thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
(Ballard unpacks by grabbing things and throwing them into corners and drawers.)
KIM: Do you know how long it took me to fold those?
BALLARD: Same old Harry.
KIM: What's that supposed to mean?
BALLARD: You're still sort of obsessive.
KIM: I'm tidy.
BALLARD: Is that why you used to request baryon sweeps of your dorm room?
KIM: When you live across the hall from a slob.
BALLARD: Hey, show some respect for the dead. Did I say something wrong?
KIM: It's nothing.
BALLARD: Just because I've been gone for three years doesn't mean I can't still read you like a book.
KIM: I gave the eulogy at your funeral.
BALLARD: Oh? What'd you say? Come on, it's everyone's fantasy to hear their own eulogy.
KIM: Absolutely not.
BALLARD: It's probably for the best. You always were a terrible public speaker. I just hope you didn't stutter too much.
KIM: I told them you had a favourite saying. Something you got from an old Klingon battle cry?
BALLARD: Own the day.
KIM: I said that you always believed in attacking each day, possessing it, and that that was what made you so much fun to be around.
BALLARD: Is that when everybody burst into tears?
KIM: I said that if you'd been there, you would have told them to own that day. To attack it, make it their own, and plan to do the same thing tomorrow.
BALLARD: Pretty strong stuff.
KIM: You were a strong person.
BALLARD: Not always. These last six months haven't been easy. There were plenty of times when I could have given up.
KIM: But you didn't.
BALLARD: You know why? You. I wanted to see you again. Hmm. Guess I won't be needing this anymore.
(She holds up her hairbrush)
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Ensign Ballard. I've finished analysing your bio-scans.
BALLARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]

EMH: My scans identified a genetic pathogen in your bloodstream. It appears to have converted most of your human DNA into a Kobali protein structure.
KIM: Is there any way to reverse it?
EMH: The biochemical changes have affected every system in your body. I'm afraid there isn't enough of your original DNA left to make you human again. But I believe I can affect some cosmetic changes.
BALLARD: Are you saying you could make me look like me again?
EMH: Yes. The alternations would literally be skin-deep, and it may take several treatments, but I've devised an inaprovaline compound which should do the trick. Physiologically, you'd still be Kobali with a multispheric brain, a binary cardiovascular system.
BALLARD: But I'd look human?
EMH: Oh, yes.
BALLARD: I've lived with this face for long enough. Let's do it.
EMH: Have a seat. You may experience some dizziness.
BALLARD: I'll hang onto Harry for support, if he doesn't mind.
KIM: That's what I'm here for.
(The EMH gives her a hypospray, and her skin starts to turn pink.)
BALLARD: What? Something wrong?
KIM: See for yourself.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Here we are, one Jibelian berry salad.
BALLARD: I have been looking forward to this for a very long time.
KIM: It was number six on her list.
BALLARD: There isn't much variety in the Kobali diet. I ate the same grey paste for three years. It doesn't taste the way I remember it.
NEELIX: What's wrong? Too sweet?
BALLARD: No offence, but it's got sort of a metallic flavour.
KIM: Seems fine to me.
BALLARD: I guess my taste buds are still Kobali.
NEELIX: Can I get you something else?
BALLARD: Thanks, but I need to take care of number sixteen. Dazzle Lieutenant Torres.

[Engineering]

TORRES: One minute early.
BALLARD: There's a first time for everything.
TORRES: An alignment error has been cropping up in the dilithium matrix. We can't seem to figure out what's causing it. I, I know that you're still settling in so I'll give you a couple of days to
BALLARD: It's a vyk'tiote.
TORRES: Excuse me?
BALLARD: Oh, a Kobali word to describe a certain kind of wave phenomenon. It's hard to translate.
TORRES: Try me.
BALLARD: Literally, it means crumpled dance. All I need to do is vyq'tal the qen'dioqe matrices, stabilise the per'cheya. Tez'tel, se menna. Cham'bioque! What?
TORRES: You were speaking Kobali.
BALLARD: I didn't realise. I'm sorry.
TORRES: Well, whatever you did, the alignment error is gone. Nice job.
BALLARD: Thanks.
TORRES: I think there might be a few crumpled dances in the warp core, too. Feel like taking a look?

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Any sign of the Kobali?
SEVEN: None.
CHAKOTAY: The latest tactical reports from Tuvok.
SEVEN: Commander. I no longer wish to serve as guardian to the Borg children.
CHAKOTAY: What's the problem?
SEVEN: Their behaviour is chaotic. My attempts to apply discipline only result in further disorder.
CHAKOTAY: Well, kids and disorder usually go hand in hand.
SEVEN: Neelix issued a similar warning prior to my taking this assignment, which is why I devised an activities schedule to promote focus and unity. Oh seven hundred hours, the children emerge from their alcoves. Nutrients are ingested in the mess hall prior to proceeding to the science lab to begin classes. At thirteen hundred hours nutrients are consumed a second time, before reporting to the holodeck, where they're studying comparative alien physiology.
CHAKOTAY: Doesn't sound like there's much time for fun.
SEVEN: On the contrary, I've scheduled recreational activities.
(She has the schedule on the screen. 1500-1600 hours. Fun.)
CHAKOTAY: You can't always schedule fun, Seven. Sometimes it needs to be spontaneous.
SEVEN: According to my research, children require structure.
CHAKOTAY: I agree, but not to this extreme. You're treating them like they're still on a Borg Cube.
SEVEN: You're comparing me to the Collective?
CHAKOTAY: You have all four children functioning as one. They do the same things together at the same time.
SEVEN: So that each child has the same opportunities to learn.
CHAKOTAY: They're individuals. Maybe they're rebelling because you don't let them express themselves.
SEVEN: Then grant my request. Choose a more suitable crew member to instruct them.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, Seven. Permission denied.

[Corridor]

(Kim has a pair of ice skates slung over his shoulder.)
PARIS: Well, I see you're finally going to try my hockey programme.
KIM: Actually, I'm taking Lyndsay skating.
PARIS: Oh. You two sure have been spending a lot of time together lately.
KIM: Don't start.
PARIS: Oh, now, let's see. For those of us keeping score, Harry Kim has fallen for a hologram, a Borg, the wrong twin, and now the dearly departed.
KIM: We're friends, just like before. All right. Maybe there was a time when I thought of pursuing Lyndsay, but I closed the door on that when we both got assigned to Voyager.
PARIS: Hmm. Don't look now, but that door is creaking open.

[Sickbay]

(Ballard's cosmetic surgery is complete. She has a head of short red hair.)
BALLARD: What do you think?
KIM: You look great.
BALLARD: Doctor thought I should stick to my original colour, but this seemed more exciting.
EMH: Hair is one of my specialties, despite evidence to the contrary.
BALLARD: It's just too bad that beneath this beautiful red hair still lies the six-lobed brain of a Kobali.
KIM: Well, are you feeling human enough for a little skating?
BALLARD: I'd love to, but I already have a date.
KIM: Who with?
BALLARD: The Captain. She's invited me to her quarters for dinner.
KIM: In six years, I have never been invited to the captain's quarters for dinner.
BALLARD: Well, I'll give her your regards.

[Janeway's quarters]

JANEWAY: Oh, damn! (The replicator is mutinying when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Formal dress wasn't required, Ensign.
BALLARD: Well, I just, I figured, dinner with the captain.
JANEWAY: I'd hardly call this dinner. My replicator decided to liquefy the pot roast.
BALLARD: It looks fine to me.
JANEWAY: Stop trying to get on my good side and grab a slice of bread. Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. I hope you don't mind.
BALLARD: Not at all. I lived on them at the Academy.
JANEWAY: So, how was your first day back on the job?
BALLARD: Pretty good, I think. Lieutenant Torres called my work competent.
JANEWAY: Trust me, that's high praise coming from B'Elanna. Commander Tuvok finished his analysis of your shuttle and presented me with thirty seven different ways of repelling a Kobali attack.
BALLARD: Did he include your pot roast? I'm sorry. I didn't mean. I can't believe I just said that.
JANEWAY: Why? It was funny. We're not on the bridge, Lyndsay. You have permission to speak freely.
BALLARD: Do you really mean that?
JANEWAY: I wouldn't have said it otherwise.
BALLARD: Then there's something I've wanted to ask you for a long time. Why me?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry?
BALLARD: Why did you choose me for that away mission?
JANEWAY: Why, I suppose I thought you were best suited for the job.
BALLARD: No, I wasn't. Dilithium extraction was always Lieutenant Torres' specialty. And Tuvok had far more experience conducting away missions. But you didn't send either one of them. Was it because they were closer to you?
JANEWAY: You blame me.
BALLARD: No, no, that's not what I meant.
JANEWAY: It's okay, Lyndsay.
BALLARD: No, it's not.
JANEWAY: I'm not offended.
BALLARD: No, you don't understand. Never harbour anger toward those who brought you death, for they gave you the chance to live again. In letting me die, Captain, you gave me life. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Lyndsay.
BALLARD: I'm sorry. I shouldn't have come.

[Mess hall - Ballard's dream]

(We know it is a dream because it is in soft focus and desaturated colouring.)
JANEWAY: You're late.
EMH: We expected you hours ago.
BALLARD: For what?
NEELIX: Your farewell party.
TORRES: You weren't supposed to come back.
CHAKOTAY: You don't belong here anymore.
BALLARD: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: Lyndsay Ballard, beloved friend and crewman. Does that sound right?
BALLARD: What?
KIM: For your eulogy. Does that sound okay?
BALLARD: Harry, I'm not dead.
EMH: Denial. One of the final stages.
TUVOK: It was illogical for you to return.
BALLARD: Please, I don't want to go.
KIM: I couldn't save you before, Lyndsay. What makes you think I can save you now?
(There is Kobali male there.)
Q'RET: Jen'to ka'siote, Jhet'leya.

[Kim's quarters]

(The doorbell wakes Kim.)
KIM: Come in. (Ballard walks straight in and sits on the side of his bed.)
KIM: What's wrong?
BALLARD: Bad day, I guess.
KIM: B'Elanna told me you did great in Engineering.
BALLARD: I solved a simple problem.
KIM: Didn't sound so simple to me.
BALLARD: Any Kobali can discern simple wave distortions. And even if B'Elanna was impressed, the others were staring at me.
KIM: I'm sure it was just your imagination.
BALLARD: And then, to make matters worse, I started babbling in front of the Captain.
KIM: I used to get pretty nervous around her, too. Don't worry. I'm sure she didn't take it personally. Hey. I know this isn't easy, but I'll help you through this.
BALLARD: You have always been far too nice to me. Why is that?
KIM: You really don't have any idea, do you? Think about it. I rearranged my schedule at the Academy just so we'd be in the same classes. I let you teach me how to skate even though I hate the cold. I'm crazy about you. I have been since the day we met.
BALLARD: Why didn't you ever tell me?
KIM: I was never good at public speaking, remember, but I figure, how often do you get a second chance? Which is why I'd very much like to kiss you now.
BALLARD: Own the day.

[Mess hall]

(Clay sculpture class. The twins are making cubes, Icheb a more complicated polygon. He gets splattered by water squeezed from a lump of clay.)
MEZOTI: Sorry.
ICHEB: You are creating disorder. Seven will be angry.
MEZOTI: I don't care.
(Mezoti is creating a bust. Seven enters.)
AZAN: They're cubes.
SEVEN: I can see that.
REBI: Precisely one one thousandth the size of a Borg vessel.
SEVEN: Well done.
ICHEB: A twenty six sided polyhedron, composed of hexagons, octagons and squares.
SEVEN: Impressive. What's this?
MEZOTI: Can't you tell? It's you.
SEVEN: I don't see the resemblance.
MEZOTI: Look. Here's your ocular implant, your nose, your mouth.
SEVEN: You were instructed to create a geometric shape.
ICHEB: I reminded her of that. She wouldn't comply.
MEZOTI: This was more fun. Don't you like it?
SEVEN: It is crude. However, it does demonstrate ingenuity and individuality.
ICHEB: She deviated from your instructions. Aren't you going to implement a punishment protocol?
SEVEN: No. Resume your disorder.

[Kim's quarters]

(Kim wakes to see Ballard sitting a little way from his bed.)
KIM: Lyndsay?
BALLARD: They're coming.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Red alert. Raise shields.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
Q'RET [on viewscreen]: I've come for Jhet'leya.
JANEWAY: If you're referring to Ensign Ballard, she's made it clear that she doesn't want to go with you.
Q'RET [on viewscreen]: She's my daughter. Please, I've come a long way. I only want to speak with her.

[Corridor]

KIM: You don't have to see him, you know. They can't make you.
BALLARD: I want to, Harry. It's time to stop running.

[Briefing room]

Q'RET: I appreciate this, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to oblige as long as you understand that this meeting is over as soon as Ensign Ballard says it is.
Q'RET: What have they done to you?
BALLARD: Given me my life back.
Q'RET: You were so beautiful. It's good to see you, Jhet'leya.
BALLARD: My name is Lyndsay.
Q'RET: Why did you leave us?
BALLARD: I wanted to be with my people again.
Q'RET: These people? The same ones who set you adrift in space?
JANEWAY: We jettisoned her body in accordance with our customs.
Q'RET: You abandoned her.
KIM: You had no right to tamper with her remains.
Q'RET: We were acting in accordance with our customs.
KIM: You mutilated her.
TUVOK: Ensign.
Q'RET: The reanimation process usually results in extensive memory loss, which makes the transition less painful. Unfortunately, some remember their former lives more than others. Jhet'leya, for example.
BALLARD: I told you to call me
Q'RET: Lyndsay Ballard. She's dead. She has been for three years. Forgive me for being so blunt, but when we found her she was a lifeless corpse. We salvaged that raw material to create a new person, my daughter, whom I love.
BALLARD: I'm not your daughter.
Q'RET: You may have altered your appearance, but do you still think like these people? Even now, the first words that come into your head, are they in their language or mine? I realise this place is familiar to you, but it's not where you belong. Your sister misses you.
BALLARD: Tynsia.
Q'RET: She keeps asking when you're coming home. What should I tell her?
BALLARD: Tell her that her sister's dead.
(Ballard leaves.)
TUVOK: I'll escort you to the transporter room.
Q'RET: I won't give her up, Captain.
JANEWAY: She made her wishes clear.
Q'RET: She's confused.
KIM: Thanks to what you did to her.
Q'RET: I don't want to fight you.
JANEWAY: Your ship is no match for Voyager.
Q'RET: Every life is precious to my people, Captain. I won't be coming back alone.

[Mess hall]

(Ballard is eating grey mush.)
KIM: Midnight snack?
BALLARD: Kobali cuisine at its finest.
KIM: So I was giving some thought to number thirty two, make Tuvok laugh? He has this holoprogramme, The Temple of T'Panit. I thought we might tweak it so that instead of Vulcan prayers, the monks recite Ferengi limericks? You're not laughing.
BALLARD: Sorry. I can't stop thinking about Q'Ret.
KIM: I can't believe he had the nerve to call himself your father. I'll bet Professor Ballard would have had something to say about that.
BALLARD: Who?
KIM: Your dad. Doesn't he teach at some university?
BALLARD: I don't remember. I don't remember anything about him.
KIM: Let's get down to the holodeck. We've got some monks to tweak.
BALLARD: Sure.
(She collapses in pain)
KIM: What's wrong?
(Ballard's skin turns grey.)

[Sickbay]

KIM: Why did she start to revert all of a sudden?
EMH: Our old friend, the pathogen. It's adapting to counteract my treatments. It's possible she'll suffer occasional relapses for the rest of her life.
BALLARD: You said you could maintain my appearance.
EMH: I can, but it looks like I'll need to increase the frequency of your treatments. You'll have to see me at least twice a day.
BALLARD: How am I supposed to do my job if I'm in here all the time. How am I supposed to do anything?
EMH: Please try to understand.
BALLARD: Stoi'gia! Net'staika pen'daeli shevaob! I'm sorry.

[Kobali shuttle]

(In the shuttlebay.)
KIM: Wow. This place sure is lived in.
BALLARD: If you're here to lecture me about cleanliness.
KIM: I'm here to ask you to stop the treatments.
BALLARD: You know what happens if I do.
KIM: You'll look Kobali again? So what? I thought you were cute bald. I don't care if you're human, Kobali or Bolian, I just want you to be happy.
BALLARD: I wouldn't fit in.
KIM: Are you saying Tuvok and Neelix don't fit in?
BALLARD: That's different. They got to grow up in their own cultures. They know where they come from, who they are.
KIM: Wherever they come from, they're part of this crew now. Just like you.
BALLARD: Lyndsay was part of this crew. If I stop the treatments, I won't be Lyndsay anymore.
KIM: You don't honestly believe that.
BALLARD: Since the day I got back here, I haven't felt right. At first I thought it was Voyager. Things had changed so much, I thought if I just gave myself more time I'd get used to it. But it's me. I've changed. And the more I try to deny it, the more I feel like a ghost. I'm sorry, Harry, but I can't keep fighting anymore.
KIM: What about us?
BALLARD: The girl you were in love with died three years ago.
(Whumph!)

[Bridge]

(Three Kobali ships are attacking Voyager.)
TUVOK: Shield's down to forty eight percent.
JANEWAY: Target the lead ship's weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: Life support's failing on decks six through ten.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to compensate.
TUVOK: Shields at twenty percent.
BALLARD: Hail them! Tell them you'll surrender me.
KIM: Don't listen to her, Captain.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the gesture, Lyndsay, but I'm not giving you up.
BALLARD: It's not a gesture. I want to go. I don't belong here.
KIM: She's not well. She doesn't know what she's saying.
BALLARD: I know exactly what I'm saying.
TUVOK: Shields at thirteen percent.
KIM: I'm detecting power fluctuations in the lead vessel's warp drive. A polaron burst could overload the core.
BALLARD: That would destroy the ship.
KIM: They're not leaving us much choice.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever we do, we have to do it fast.
JANEWAY: You're sure this is what you want?
KIM: Captain, I can fire that polaron burst myself.
CHAKOTAY: Stand down, Ensign.
KIM: We can't just let them take her.
BALLARD: Even if you stop them, I can't stay on Voyager.
KIM: I don't want to lose you.
BALLARD: You already did, but at least this time we've been given the chance to say goodbye.

Captain's log, stardate 53679.4. The Doctor has stopped Ensign Ballard's treatments and her Kobali physiology is already beginning to reassert itself. All but one of us have said our goodbyes.

[Transporter room]

KIM: Vien'ke debala, Jhet'leya. I taught myself to say a few words in Kobali.
BALLARD: That's very sweet of you, but you just told me the comets are tiresome.
KIM: I guess I'd better work on my pronunciation. I'm sorry you didn't get to finish everything on your list.
BALLARD: I think I took care of what really mattered.
(She kisses Kim and gets onto the transporter platform. He beams her away.)

[Mess hall]

(Kim is holding Ballard's hairbrush.)
MEZOTI: That's pretty. 
KIM: It belonged to a friend of mine. Would you like it?
MEZOTI: Your friend won't mind?
KIM: I think she'd be happy knowing I gave it to someone with such pretty hair.
MEZOTI: Seven's letting us go to the holodeck by ourselves. She says we can run any programme we want. Do you want to come?
KIM: Have you ever heard of The Temple of T'Panit? It's a Vulcan programme.
MEZOTI: Sounds boring.
KIM: Don't worry, we'll make a few tweaks.


S6 E19
Child's Play
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 8 March 2000

[Mess hall]
(The First Annual Voyager Science Fair, according to the banner. Janeway is looking at Azen and Rebi's exhibit.)
JANEWAY: Why potatoes?
SEVEN: Their first idea was to clone Naomi, but I suggested they start with something smaller.
TORRES: Quite a feat of engineering.
MEZOTI: It's a Teirenian ant colony. I infused the soil with a blue ion dye so it'd be easier to see the insects.
JANEWAY: They're luminescent.
MEZOTI: The drones produce a fluorescent enzyme that's activated by the Queen.
JANEWAY: Drones and Queens? I thought we were trying to get these children away from the Borg.
SEVEN: The project was Mezoti's idea. I didn't want to discourage her individuality.
MEZOTI: I like bugs.
JANEWAY: Well done. Let me know before you take up beekeeping.
CHAKOTAY: What have we got here?
NAOMI: It's Kataris.
TORRES: Your father's planet.
NAOMI: I've been learning all about it.
SEVEN: Naomi programmed the geophysical and atmospheric conditions.
CHAKOTAY: There's quite a storm in those mountains.
NAOMI: The Arpasian range is known for high winds and hail.
JANEWAY: I'll remember to bring my coat. Now this looks impressive.
ICHEB: It's a high-resolution gravimetric sensor array.
TORRES: Ambitious.
ICHEB: It'll augment our ability to scan for the neutrino flux associated with wormholes. It could help Voyager find a faster way home.
SEVEN: The engineering principles are sound.
JANEWAY: I expected these projects to be interesting, but this is truly exceptional.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain. I am very interested in astrophysics.
JANEWAY: Well, you've obviously got a knack for it. Well done.
TORRES: How did you think of scanning for neutrino fluctuations?
ICHEB: I've been studying Starfleet records. (continues under conversation)
JANEWAY: He's a remarkable young man.
SEVEN: He hopes to earn a permanent posting in Astrometrics one day.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid that won't be possible.
SEVEN: Captain, the boy has a unique talent.
JANEWAY: It's not a question of merit. We've made contact with his parents, and I've set a course for their planet.
ICHEB: My scanner is calibrated to pick up changes in neutrino trajectories.
SEVEN: That's good news.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: You've exceeded your scheduled time here by one hour.
ICHEB: I'm almost finished.
SEVEN: Your work will have to wait. There's something we need to discuss.
ICHEB: Look at this. It's a star forming in the Orpisay nebula.
SEVEN: The Orpisay nebula is out of range of our sensors.
ICHEB: I increased the resolution of the long range scanners.
SEVEN: Impressive.
ICHEB: When I was on the Cube, I never thought about what was outside. Pulsars, quasars, nebulas. But here in this lab, I feel I can see the entire galaxy. What did you want to talk to me about? You said there was something we needed to discuss.
SEVEN: Yes, that's correct. It's time for you to regenerate.

[Janeway's quarters]

(Janeway is reading a book when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: I'd like the data you've collected on Icheb's species so I can prepare him for re-assimilation.
JANEWAY: Maybe we could refer to it as getting reacquainted with his family.
SEVEN: If you prefer.
JANEWAY: I'll transfer the files down to Astrometrics.
SEVEN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: How'd he take the news? You haven't told him.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Why not?
SEVEN: It won't be easy for him to accept. He's adapted to life on Voyager.
JANEWAY: And you've adapted to having him here.
SEVEN: My feelings are irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Are they? Would you like me to tell him?
SEVEN: It's my responsibility, but I am uncertain how to proceed.
JANEWAY: Well, you've already helped him make one difficult transition. How did you do that?
SEVEN: By giving him the benefit of my own experiences. Encouraging him to be resilient in the face of obstacles.
JANEWAY: Sounds like a good strategy.
(Seven leaves.)

[Cargo Bay two]

(Icheb is working at a console.)
SEVEN: Is your alcove malfunctioning?
ICHEB: I'm calculating neutrino trajectories.
SEVEN: You need to regenerate.
ICHEB: Very well.
SEVEN: Wait. We've located your parents. Voyager is due to arrive at their planet tomorrow.
ICHEB: Do I have to stay with them?
SEVEN: They're your parents.
ICHEB: I don't remember them.
SEVEN: After my parents were assimilated I never saw them again. You're fortunate to have this chance.
ICHEB: What about the others?
SEVEN: We haven't been able to locate their families yet.
ICHEB: That's not what I mean. What will happen to them if I leave? They depend on me.
SEVEN: They'll adapt.
ICHEB: I'll never see you again?
SEVEN: I've been studying Brunali culture. It's very different from what you've become accustomed to on Voyager.
ICHEB: In what way?
SEVEN: They're an agrarian society. Their technological resources are limited.
ICHEB: Are they capable of space travel?
SEVEN: Yes, but most of their vessels were destroyed by the Borg.
ICHEB: How will I continue my studies?
SEVEN: I don't know.
(Icheb puts down the PADD and steps into his alcove.)
SEVEN: Icheb.

[Bridge]

(Voyager arrives at the Brunali homeworld.)
KIM: I'm detecting scattered enclaves on the northern continent, all with populations of fewer than ten thousand.
TUVOK: Judging from the residual gamma radiation, it appears they've suffered numerous Borg attacks over the past decade.
SEVEN: That's not surprising. There's a Borg transwarp conduit less than a light year away.
PARIS: Not exactly prime real estate.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, run continuous scans for Borg activity. Tom, put us into synchronous orbit.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Seven. You'd better get Icheb.

[Sickbay]

EMH: According to these scans, you're in perfect health.
ICHEB: Then why does my stomach feel so strange?
(The EMH scans it.)
EMH: Oh, I should have known. You've got butterflies in there.
ICHEB: I never assimilated butterflies.
EMH: It's an expression used to describe anxiety or apprehension, both of which are perfectly natural reactions for someone about to meet his long lost parents. If it's any comfort, I'm sure they're just as nervous about meeting you.
ICHEB: Parents are irrelevant.
EMH: Really. Do you think Naomi's mother is irrelevant to her?
ICHEB: I have Seven of Nine to assist me in my education. I have you to care for my medical needs.
EMH: Your parents can nurture you in ways this crew can't. They can explain the Brunali culture, share their experiences with you.
ICHEB: You didn't have parents.
EMH: No, but
ICHEB: You adapted to serve a vital function about this vessel, forged relationships with its crew, all without the benefit of parents.
EMH: I had my programming to fall back on.
ICHEB: And how would your programming respond if you were asked to live with strangers?
(Seven enters.)
SEVEN: Are you damaged?
EMH: He's fine. I was just giving him a last minute check-up.
SEVEN: It's time.
EMH: The butterflies will go away.

[Brunali settlement]

(Tuvok, Janeway, Seven and Icheb beam down.)
JANEWAY: Hello. I'm Captain Janeway.
(Icheb's mother speaks first.)
YIFAY: Icheb.
LEUCON: You've grown.
SEVEN: He spent several months in a Borg maturation chamber.
JANEWAY: This is Seven of Nine.
YIFAY: That's a Borg designation, isn't it?
SEVEN: Like your son, I was liberated from the Collective.
JANEWAY: Seven has been instrumental in helping Icheb make his transition.
LEUCON: Then we're very grateful to you. I'm Leucon, Icheb's father. This is his mother, Yifay.
YIFAY: How are you?
ICHEB: Fine.
YIFAY: Do these hurt you?
(The remains of his cortical implant by the bridge of his nose.)
ICHEB: No.
LEUCON: We're very happy to have you back with us. Mala, Remi, Yivel.
YIVEL: Welcome home, Icheb.
ICHEB: I would like to return to Voyager now.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Thank you for coming.
LEUCON: Where's Icheb?
JANEWAY: I thought it might be better if we talked ourselves first.
LEUCON: What exactly is there to discuss?
JANEWAY: How to make this transition easier for your son. Please, sit down.
YIFAY: It won't be easy for him to give up the luxuries of your ship.
SEVEN: It's more than a question of luxuries. Icheb has special medical needs.
LEUCON: We have a physician in our settlement.
JANEWAY: We should arrange for him to consult with our Doctor.
SEVEN: He also requires daily regeneration.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you can adapt some of our technology to make that possible.
SEVEN: What about his educational requirements?
YIFAY: Our children go to school.
SEVEN: Will he be able to continue his studies in Astrometrics and spatial harmonics?
LEUCON: If Icheb has an aptitude for science, I'm sure he'll find that we have a great deal to teach him.
SEVEN: For example?
LEUCON: We've developed sophisticated techniques in agricultural genetics which allow us to grow crops in an inhospitable environment.
SEVEN: Icheb has expressed no interest in agriculture.
JANEWAY: I'm sure once he's been exposed to the subject, he'll find it quite challenging.
SEVEN: There's still the issue of his safety.
YIFAY: We're perfectly capable of protecting our son.
SEVEN: Your proximity to a Borg conduit makes you extremely vulnerable. I'm curious if you've ever considered relocating.
JANEWAY: Seven.
LEUCON: No, it's all right, Captain. This planet is our home. We will never leave it. We will defend it against the Borg or anyone else who threatens us.
SEVEN: Your courage is admirable but unrealistic.
JANEWAY: Wait for me in my ready room.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: Now.
(Seven leaves.)
JANEWAY: I apologise for her behaviour. She and Icheb have grown very close, but that's no excuse for rudeness.
LEUCON: We'd like to see our son now.
JANEWAY: Please be patient. If we rush things, your next encounter with him may not go any better than the last. Stay aboard Voyager for a while. It'll give Icheb a chance to get to know you in an environment that's familiar to him. I'll have Neelix do everything he can to make you comfortable while you're here.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Your attitude is making a difficult situation worse.
SEVEN: I was simply attempting to insure Icheb's well-being.
JANEWAY: By insulting his parents?
SEVEN: Those issues needed to be discussed.
JANEWAY: You could have done it with a little more tact.
SEVEN: Perhaps, but that doesn't alter the fact that those individuals may not be suitable guardians.
JANEWAY: Those individuals are his mother and father.
SEVEN: Which is no guarantee that they'll be able to care for him. He's far more likely to flourish if he remains on Voyager.
JANEWAY; That's not an option, Seven.
SEVEN: Are you ordering him off the ship?
JANEWAY: That's not what I said.
SEVEN: So that he can be assimilated again?
JANEWAY: What makes you so sure that's going to happen?
SEVEN: They shouldn't remain on that planet.
JANEWAY: It's their home.
SEVEN: It's not worth protecting.
JANEWAY: Who are you to decide that?
SEVEN: Anyone who values their own goals over the safety of their children is irresponsible.
JANEWAY: Are we talking about Icheb's parents, or yours?
SEVEN: Both.
JANEWAY: It's not like you to admit to something like that.
SEVEN: It would be naive for me to claim objectivity in this case. But I'm not prepared to return Icheb to parents who may be as careless as my own.
JANEWAY: I know what it's like to feel protective towards someone you've helped through a difficult period, but Icheb is an individual now. You have to give him a chance to form his own opinions.
SEVEN: If I do, and he decides to remain on Voyager?
JANEWAY: Then it'll be my problem.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Mezoti is riding a little scooter. Naomi and the twins are playing Kadis-kot.)
MEZOTI: Is your mother pretty? What are they like?
ICHEB: I'm busy.
NAOMI: I never met my father.
AZAN: I don't remember ours.
REBI: Neither do I.
NAOMI: Are you going to stay with them?
MEZOTI: If you leave, who is going to help us with our science projects?
ICHEB: If you don't stop asking questions I'm going to put all of you in a cargo container and transport you back to the Borg.
SEVEN: Come with me.
ICHEB: Where?
SEVEN: To dinner with your parents.
ICHEB: I'm working.
SEVEN: You can continue your work after the meal.
ICHEB: I don't have anything to talk about with them.
SEVEN: Then it will be a very quiet evening.
ICHEB: I'm not going.
SEVEN: Your attendance is not optional.

[Mess hall]

(Yifay and Neelix bring dishes from the galley. Seven and Icheb enter.)
SEVEN: Enjoy your meal.
(Seven starts to leave, then stands by the door.)
YIFAY: Come, sit down.
ICHEB: I prefer to stand.
YIFAY: Mister Neelix let me use his galley to prepare some poma.
ICHEB: I'm not hungry.
YIFAY: It was your favourite food when you were little.
ICHEB: I'm not little anymore.
YIFAY: No. No, you're not.
LEUCON: Your mother worked hard on that meal. Couldn't you at least try it?
(Icheb looks at Seven, who nods. Icheb sits and tastes the food.)
LEUCON: Good, isn't it.
NEELIX: Nice to see the family back together again, isn't it?
YIFAY: When you were little, you would only eat the inside

[Brunali settlement]

LEUCON: The Borg didn't leave us much to work with but we didn't need much, just a little ingenuity. Everything you see, we built with our own hands. Our homes, cultivation bays
ICHEB: What's this?
LEUCON: A genetic re-sequencer. We use it to alter the DNA of certain plants to conform with environmental conditions.
ICHEB: You built this as well?
LEUCON: We adapted parts from damaged vessels. Nothing's been wasted.
ICHEB: Efficient.
LEUCON: Efficiency's one attribute we share with the Borg. In our case, it's a necessity. I know our settlement seems primitive compared to Voyager, but I promise you, that will change.
ICHEB: What about space travel?
LEUCON: Someday we'll have ships that rival Voyager, but we need the dedication of young people like you to help us.
(A young man shouts over from the rocky field.)
YIVEL: Icheb! How are you?
ICHEB: Well, thank you.
YIVEL: Maybe later you can join us up on the field for a game of pala.
ICHEB: I don't remember how to play.
YIVEL: It will come back to you.
LEUCON: You used to be quite an athlete. You can make a difference here, Icheb.
ICHEB: I don't know anything about agriculture or genetics.
LEUCON: It won't take you long to learn. Not with a mind like yours.
(Seven beams down.)
SEVEN: It's time to return to Voyager.
ICHEB: I am staying here tonight.
SEVEN: They don't have a regeneration unit.
LEUCON: We're going to have to install one eventually. Might as well do it now.
SEVEN: As far as I am aware, he hasn't decided to remain here yet.
LEUCON: But he has asked to stay tonight.
SEVEN: Return with me to the ship. We'll prepare a regeneration unit.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: I've adapted this neural transceiver to interface with the portable regenerator. It has enough power to complete one full cycle.
LEUCON: We'll have to devise a way of recharging it.
SEVEN: If Icheb decides to stay.
LEUCON: My wife and I appreciate everything you've done for our son. It's obvious you care about him.
SEVEN: He's a unique individual.
LEUCON: Yes, he is. To get him back is, well, a miracle.
SEVEN: How was he taken?
LEUCON: Since the Borg first attacked us, we've taken great pains to hide whatever new technology we develop.
SEVEN: So the passing cubes won't be attracted to your planet.
LEUCON: Unfortunately, we haven't always been successful. One morning, about four years ago, Icheb heard me talking about a new fertilisation array we'd constructed in the lower field. He wanted to see it. I told him I'd take him the next day but he was impatient, the way boys can be. I never even realised he'd wandered off when the alarm sounded. It turns out the Borg were just as interested in our new technology as Icheb was. They took him, and assimilated everyone in the area. If only I'd kept a closer eye on him.
SEVEN: Icheb has a mind of his own.
LEUCON: But still, it's hard not to blame myself. Your parents must've felt the same way when they lost you.
SEVEN: My parents were with me when the Borg attacked.
LEUCON: I can't imagine what that must have been like for them, watching their daughter being assimilated. Helpless to defend her.
SEVEN: It's important that Icheb regenerate for six uninterrupted hours.
LEUCON: I understand.
SEVEN: He may resist. He doesn't like to waste time. I've had to contend with his lack of patience as well.

[Brunali settlement - Icheb's home]

LEUCON: There's a star called Kelsin Three. To the west is the Orlitus Cluster. There, just above it, when you connect those six stars, they form what we call the Great Horn.
ICHEB: I see it.
YIFAY: You inherited your love of the stars from your father.
LEUCON: Being on that starship, you've learned much more about astronomy than I have. Our little window can't compare to Voyager's Astrometrics lab.
ICHEB: No, but it's nice.
YIFAY: You see? We have everything we need right here. A warm fire, good food that we grow ourselves, and people who love us.
LEUCON: Icheb has people on Voyager who love him, too.
YIFAY: You've grown attached to the crew on that ship, haven't you?
ICHEB: They've provided for me, given me opportunities.
LEUCON: They're good people. People who've experienced hardship themselves. Seven of Nine told me about your science project. She said it might prove very useful.
ICHEB: It's designed to detect wormholes.
LEUCON: How will that benefit them?
ICHEB: It may help them find a way back to Earth.
YIFAY: Why is that so important to them?
ICHEB: It's their home.
LEUCON: Interesting, isn't it?
ICHEB: What?
LEUCON: With all their technology, their opportunity to explore the galaxy, the thing they want most is to get home.

[Astrometrics lab]

ICHEB: Good morning.
SEVEN: Did you regenerate successfully?
ICHEB: Yes, and I slept under the stars. You should try it.
SEVEN: You weren't in class this morning. The others missed you.
ICHEB: I was helping my father. There is something we need to discuss.
SEVEN: What is it? You've decided to stay with them.
ICHEB: Yes.
SEVEN: You're certain?
ICHEB: This is my home. I have a responsibility to help them rebuild it.
SEVEN: I'll inform the captain.
ICHEB: Thank you.
SEVEN: I'm sure you'll want to say goodbye to the other children.

[Transporter room]

(Seven hands Icheb a case.)
SEVEN: Inside you'll find PADDs containing data on a variety of subjects that will allow you to continue your studies. I've also included a high-resolution telescope. It's a poor substitute for Astrometric sensors.
ICHEB: I will use it every day.
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Icheb, and good luck.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain. I hope you find a way home.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Mezoti steps out of her alcove.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete.
(She shakes Seven's arm.)
SEVEN: What is it?
MEZOTI: I can't regenerate.
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete.
SEVEN: Explain.
MEZOTI: I miss Icheb.
SEVEN: So do I, but we'll adapt. Now return to your alcove.
MEZOTI: If you find my parents, will I have to go with them?
SEVEN: We'll discuss that when and if the time comes.
MEZOTI: I hope you don't find them.
SEVEN: Regenerate.
MEZOTI: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
MEZOTI: What if the Borg try to assimilate Icheb again?
SEVEN: His people lack resources. The Borg have little reason to return to their planet.
MEZOTI: But what if Icheb's on a ship?
SEVEN: Unlikely.
MEZOTI: He was on a ship last time.
SEVEN: You're mistaken. He was on the surface when he was assimilated.
MEZOTI: No, he wasn't. A class one transport was detected in grid six four nine. One lifeform. Species, Brunali.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: This better be important.
SEVEN: It is.
JANEWAY: Sorry, I don't read Borg. You'll have to translate.
SEVEN: This is tactical data from the Cube where we found the children. It says that Icheb was alone aboard an unarmed transport vessel when the Borg took him.
JANEWAY: Oh, why are you telling me this at oh three hundred hours?
SEVEN: Icheb's father told me the boy was assimilated on the planet's surface.
JANEWAY: Is it possible you misunderstood?
SEVEN: No. He was very specific.
JANEWAY: That Cube was disabled by a deadly pathogen. It suffered extensive damage. Isn't it possible these records were corrupted?
SEVEN: Perhaps, but I found another inconsistency in Leucon's story. He told me Icheb was assimilated four years ago but further analysis indicates the Borg attacked three times during the last decade. Nine years ago, six years ago, and again last year.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's assume your information is accurate. What does it prove?
SEVEN: His father was lying.
JANEWAY: Why would he do that?
SEVEN: I'm not certain, but we have an obligation to find out.
JANEWAY: What are you proposing?
SEVEN: That we return to the planet, demand an explanation.
JANEWAY: Those people have been through enough. Do we really need to interrogate them?
SEVEN: We have a responsibility to ensure Icheb's safety.
JANEWAY: He chose to stay with his parents.
SEVEN: Maybe he didn't have all the information.
JANEWAY: Just because they weren't completely candid with you doesn't mean they're unfit parents. At some point, you have to let go.
SEVEN: I know what you're thinking, that I'm having emotional difficulty accepting my separation from Icheb and you're correct. But if there's a possibility he's in danger, even a remote one, I have to do whatever I can to protect him. If I don't, I'll be no better than my own parents.

[Brunali settlement - Icheb's home]

LEUCON: Couldn't we at least wait a few days?
YIFAY: What would that accomplish?
LEUCON: He's just getting settled.
YIFAY: The longer we wait the harder it'll be for everyone. You know that.
LEUCON: Why do it at all? There's nothing compelling us to go through with it.
YIFAY: It's what he was born for.
LEUCON: Hasn't he been through enough? Why not give him a chance at an ordinary life?
YIFAY: He's not an ordinary child.
LEUCON: No, but he can help us in other ways. He's bright. He's hardworking.
YIFAY: Leucon, his return was a gift. We can't waste it.
LEUCON: I don't want to lose him a second time.
YIFAY: To survive, we all have to make sacrifices. You taught me that.
(Icheb enters.)
ICHEB: We won three games in a row.
YIFAY: Sit down, Icheb. We need to talk. You know that you're very important to us.
ICHEB: Yes.
YIFAY: What you don't know is why.
ICHEB: What do you mean? What is that?
(Yifay fetches a hypodermic from a drawer.)
YIFAY: If you relax, it won't hurt you.
ICHEB: Father?
YIFAY: You'd better hold him.
ICHEB: What are you doing to me?
(Yifay injects him, and he passes out.)
ICHEB: No!
YIFAY: Prepare the launch.

[Bridge]

(Voyager returns to the planet.)
JANEWAY: Hail them.
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: We didn't expect to see you again, Captain.
JANEWAY: We'd like to ask you a few questions, if you don't mind.
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: Questions?
SEVEN: Regarding Icheb and the circumstances of his assimilation.
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: We've already discussed that.
SEVEN: The story you told me was inconsistent with our data.
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: We don't owe you any explanations.
JANEWAY: In that case, I'd like to talk to Icheb.
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: He's not here.
SEVEN: Where is he?
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: That's not your concern.
JANEWAY: Scan for his bio-signs.
TUVOK: He is not in the settlement.
SEVEN: I'm detecting a Brunali transport vessel, distance, nine million kilometres. It's heading for the coordinates of the transwarp conduit.
CHAKOTAY: According to these readings that ship is travelling at warp nine point eight.
PARIS: It only looks that way. It's been designed to emit a false warp signature strong enough to penetrate subspace.
SEVEN: They're using it as bait to attract the Borg.
JANEWAY: Icheb's on that vessel, isn't he?
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: He's fighting for his people.
SEVEN: Alone, on an unarmed transport?
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: We don't have particle weapons or powerful starships at our disposal. We're forced to use the only resource we have.
SEVEN: Your children?
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: No. Our genetic expertise.
JANEWAY: Icheb's not bait. He's a weapon. The first Cube that captured him was infected by a pathogen. Icheb was the carrier, wasn't he?
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: Every time we try to rebuild, begin to make progress, the Borg come and take it away from us.
JANEWAY: Tom, set a course for that transport vessel. Full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: You have no right to interfere.
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: We're trying to save our civilisation.
SEVEN: By taking away Icheb's future.
YIFAY [on viewscreen]: If we don't stop the Borg, the Brunali have no future.
LEUCON [on viewscreen]: Captain, a Borg ship will emerge from that conduit at any moment. You'll be destroyed.
JANEWAY: We'll take our chances. End transmission. Red alert. Battle stations.
(Voyager leaves orbit.)
PARIS: We're coming within range, Captain.
KIM: I'm picking up Icheb's life signs. Bio-scans indicate he's unconscious.
CHAKOTAY: Transport him to Sickbay.
SEVEN: I can't. There's some kind of interference.
TUVOK: It's the conduit. By my estimate, a Borg vessel will emerge in less than forty seconds.
JANEWAY: Transfer auxiliary power to the transporters.
SEVEN: I still can't establish a lock, not at this distance.
TUVOK: Thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Tom, get us closer to that ship.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: The conduit's opening. Twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Still out of range.
JANEWAY: You heard her, Tom.
PARIS: When that Borg ship comes through I'm going to have a hell of a time getting away from it.
JANEWAY: One problem at a time.
TUVOK: Ten seconds, nine, eight.
SEVEN: I've got a lock.
TUVOK: Seven.
SEVEN: Transport in progress.
TUVOK: Five.
SEVEN: He's in Sickbay.
TUVOK: Three, two, one.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum
(Whumph! The Borg Sphere grabs Voyager and the Brunali shuttle.)
JANEWAY: Target their tractor beam generator.
TUVOK: Phasers targeted.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: No effect.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Perhaps not. There is a way to get a weapon through their shields.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
SEVEN: Transport a photon torpedo to the Brunali vessel. Set it to detonate soon as it's inside the Sphere.
TUVOK: That will occur in approximately twenty seconds. However, Voyager will be inside less than three seconds later.
JANEWAY: Tom, full reverse thrusters. It might buy us a couple more seconds. Do it.
SEVEN: Transport complete. Detonation in ten, nine.
(Voyager turns on a sixpence.)
SEVEN: Five.
JANEWAY: Tom, go to warp on my mark.
SEVEN: Three, two.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, brace for impact.
(The shuttle explodes in the entrance, funnelling the shockwave outwards.)
JANEWAY: Now, Mister Paris!
TUVOK: The Borg vessel has taken heavy damage. They are not pursuing.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Are you saying his parents re-infected him?
EMH: No, they merely sedated him.
SEVEN: I don't understand.
EMH: He was genetically engineered to produce the pathogen from birth.
JANEWAY: Bred to kill Borg.
SEVEN: Is he in danger?
EMH: I can suppress the pathogen. He'll be fine, physically.
JANEWAY: He's going to need help coming to terms with what's happened.
SEVEN: Captain, I
JANEWAY: Use your maternal instincts. They worked before.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I thought you were studying spatial harmonics.
ICHEB: My parents suggested I might have an aptitude for genetics as well.
SEVEN: I see. What have you learned?
ICHEB: This is the genome of a typical Brunali male and this is my DNA. They're nearly identical, but do you notice the differences in the third, thirteenth and seventeenth chromosomes?
SEVEN: Yes.
ICHEB: My parents made microgenetic alterations so I would produce the pathogen. Quite ingenious.
SEVEN: It's also barbaric.
ICHEB: They were trying to defend themselves, their way of life. Preserve their species.
SEVEN: I know how difficult it is to acknowledge your parents' faults, but what they did was wrong. You don't have to forgive them.
ICHEB: Do you think they will ever forgive me?
SEVEN: For what?
ICHEB: I could have destroyed that Sphere. I failed them.
SEVEN: You would have been reassimilated.
ICHEB: I know, but
SEVEN: But what?
ICHEB: Maybe it was my destiny.
SEVEN: Maybe. In the future you may choose to fight the Borg, but you'll do it in your own way. You're an individual, and you have the right to determine your own destiny. It's time to regenerate.
ICHEB: And if I prefer to continue studying?
SEVEN: It's your decision.


S6 E20
Good Shepherd
Stardate: 53753.2
Original Airdate: 15 March 2000

[Ready room]
(We zoom in from space to Janeway standing looking out of a window. The doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine's shipwide efficiency analysis.
JANEWAY: Did we get a passing grade?
CHAKOTAY: Barely. She wants to present it to the senior staff.
JANEWAY: Put her on the schedule.
CHAKOTAY: We'll be passing by a class T cluster in the next couple of days. Gas giants, radiogenic sources. I'm not sure it's worth altering course.
JANEWAY: At the very least we should send the Delta Flyer for a look. And let's get a full range of sensor scans as we get closer.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We'll go to a level three analysis of the cluster. Tom, get the Flyer ready and assemble an away team. Harry, start continuous scans.
KIM: Kim to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Proceed, Ensign.
KIM: Any chance you could increase radiogenic resolution in the long range sensors?

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM [OC]: The Captain wants to get a cleaner look at that cluster coming up off starboard.
SEVEN: Acknowledged. Take these specifications to Lieutenant Torres.
CELES: Right away.
(The young Bajoran crewwoman leaves with the PADD.)

[Turbolift]

CELES: Deck eleven.

[Engineering]

TORRES: What's our Borg Queen want now? We need to route at least another five terawatts to the sensor array.

[Turbolift]

(The PADD continues on its journey.)
ENGINEER: Deck fifteen.

[Plasma relay room]

ENGINEER: Hello.
(He enters a small office with Plasma Sublimation Control 007 on a wall screen.)
ENGINEER: Sorry to interrupt.
HARREN: I'm about to disprove Schlezholt's theory of multiple big bangs. Of course I had to demolish Wang's second postulate to do it.
ENGINEER: Power transfer requisition.
HARREN: You're standing in the way of cosmological history.
ENGINEER: The cosmos is sixteen billion years old. It can wait another few minutes.
(Harren glances at the PADD and presses a few buttons.)
HARREN: Schlezholt would thank you for the reprieve.

Captain's log, stardate 53753.2. Long range scans of the T cluster have indicated a number of tantalising anomalies. The away team should have a field day. Who knows, I may even join them myself.

[Celes' quarters]

(Shared quarters. Celes uses her comm. badge under her blanket to speak to a crewmate.)
CELES: Billy, Billy, wake up.
TELFER [OC]: What do you want?
CELES: I need help.
TELFER [OC]: Good night.
CELES: Billy, don't you dare go back to sleep.

[Telfer's quarters]

TELFER: What's the problem?

[Celes' quarters]

CELES: I'm in trouble.
TELFER [OC]: Go

[Telfer's quarters]

TELFER: To sleep.
CELES [OC]: Help me first?
TELFER: With what?
CELES [OC]: This level three sensor analysis. I've got four hours of subspace infrared to interpret.
TELFER: Long range scans on that cluster up ahead?

[Celes' quarters]

CELES: Yes.
TELFER [OC]: It's too complicated

[Telfer's quarters]

TELFER: To do over the comm. Either we meet in the mess hall or we wait until tomorrow.
CELES [OC]: I don't want to get dressed,

[Celes' quarters]

CELES: And it can't wait until tomorrow.

[Telfer's quarters]

TELFER: Your only options.

[Briefing room]

SEVEN: I've given Operations an efficiency rating of seventy six out of a possible one hundred.
KIM: Not exactly flying colours.
SEVEN: The crewmen you assigned to the night shift are frequently left with little to do once the ship's course has been locked in.
EMH: The devil finds work for idle hands.
SEVEN: Religious metaphors are irrelevant. Perhaps you should consider assigning them additional tasks.
TORRES: What's this I'm guilty of? Failure to utilise expertise?
SEVEN: Crewman Mortimer Harren. He has five advanced degrees in theoretical cosmology, but you've assigned him to the plasma relay room. His talents could be put to better use.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: Believe me, I've tried. When I give him more responsibility he doesn't do the work. Harren wants to be down on deck fifteen. It gives him more time to repostulate the origins of the universe.
SEVEN: As you can see, security is functioning at near-perfect efficiency. However, Commander, if you arrange the phasers in the weapons lockers so that the smaller rifles were in front, they could be more easily removed in the event of an emergency.
TUVOK: I'll look into it.
SEVEN: Crewman William Telfer.
EMH: Billy. He certainly ruined my score.
SEVEN: He visits the Sickbay almost once a week complaining of illness. Invariably you examine him and find nothing wrong.
EMH: Mister Telfer is a hypochondriac. I'd treat him for it, but he's afraid of medication.
JANEWAY: Have you tried counselling?
EMH: He's afraid of that, too. All I can do is scan him and offer him reassurance.
SEVEN: Wasting your time and medical resources.
KIM: What about Astrometrics? Looks like you could use some improvement yourself, Seven.
SEVEN: You are correct, unfortunately. Tal Celes, sensor analyst grade three. Her work must be constantly double checked. She should be removed from Astrometrics and reassigned elsewhere. Perhaps to Engineering.
TORRES: Forget it. I've got my own problems to fix, remember?
JANEWAY: That'll be all, Seven, thank you. Dismissed.
(Everyone else leaves.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: They've never been on an away mission. Mortimer Harren, William Telfer, Tal Celes. None of them.
CHAKOTAY: They get off the ship whenever we have general leave.
JANEWAY: I mean a working away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Harren never volunteers. Celes can't get past the proficiency requirements. And Telfer always seems to get a note from his doctor.
JANEWAY: Something's got to be done about this.
CHAKOTAY: What can we do? There are always a few who don't make it past their first year on a starship. Normally, they're reassigned. But in our case, maybe we should relieve them of duty and let them pursue their own interests. It certainly wouldn't hurt general efficiency.
JANEWAY: They aren't drones, Chakotay. We can't just deactivate them. Is the Delta Flyer ready?
CHAKOTAY: Flight-checked with provisions for a seventy two hour away mission. What have you got in mind, Captain?
JANEWAY: Three people have slipped through the cracks on my ship. That makes it my problem.

[Mess hall]

TELFER: The analytical aspects of the subspace infrared algorithm are fourfold.
CELES: Unfortunately, I have a threefold brain.
TELFER: You just have to break it down. Think of it as four smaller algorithms.
(Janeway enters.)
CELES: Okay, but what's the sequence?
JANEWAY: It's Zero G Is Fun. As you were. Zeta particle derivation, Gamma wave frequency, Ion distribution, Flow rate of positrons. Z.G.I.F. Zero G Is Fun. That's how you remember the sequence.
CELES: Thank you, Captain. I'll try.
JANEWAY: Good, because where we're headed, you're going to need it. I'll be briefing you this afternoon in Astrometrics. We leave first thing in the morning.

[Turbolift]

JANEWAY: Deck fifteen.

[Deck 15]

(Janeway steps out of the turbolift and hesitates. She's never been here before.)
MITCHELL: Captain on the deck!
JANEWAY: At ease. Junction room sixteen?
MITCHELL: Over there, Captain.
JANEWAY: Of course. Crewman Mitchell, how have you been?
MITCHELL: Never better, ma'am. Yourself?
JANEWAY: Not bad. Not bad at all.
(Janeway walks on to a junction.)
MITCHELL: Ah, to the left, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Junction room 16]

JANEWAY: Crewman Harren.
HARREN: Captain Janeway, are you lost?
JANEWAY: I was, for a minute. I'll be briefing you this afternoon.
(She hands him a PADD.)
HARREN: Well, there's been a mistake.
JANEWAY: Excuse me?
HARREN: You have me assigned to an away mission. I have my duties here. I prefer not to leave my post.
JANEWAY: Ensign Culhane will cover for you. The pre-flight schedule is all there.
HARREN: If this is charity, Captain, I don't want it.
JANEWAY: I didn't ask you what you want. I'm taking the Delta Flyer on an astronomical survey mission and your expertise is needed.
HARREN: What do you know about my expertise?
JANEWAY: As much as I need to.
HARREN: Well then, you might be interested to know that I'm about to disprove Schlezholt's theory of multiple big bangs.
JANEWAY: Really. Wang's second postulate has more lives than a cat, doesn't it? Once you think you've eliminated it, bam, it pops up again. I'll give you a hand if you'd like, when the away mission is over.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Once we reach the cluster, we'll drop out of warp and maintain one quarter impulse on the sweep through the protostars. I'll be piloting the Delta Flyer. Celes, you're going to run an ongoing sensor analysis, providing data for your colleagues. Mister Harren, you'll be looking at subspace particle decay for anything new we might learn about star formation. And Mister Telfer, your job will be to look for signs of life. A long shot in this environment, but if it's out there, I'm sure you'll find it. You'll have the rest of the evening to familiarise yourselves with the mission.
TELFER: Excuse me, Captain. If we find a planet, we're not planning on exploring the surface, are we?
HARREN: That's a stellar nursery. Any planets will be gas giants.
TELFER: They may have moons.
JANEWAY: Don't worry. We'll run a complete scan for pathogens before we set foot anywhere. And the Delta Flyer is fully equipped to deal with medical emergencies. We'll be fine. Shuttlebay one, oh six hundred hours. Dismissed.
(Telfter, Harren and Celes leave.)
SEVEN: Celes is unreliable. Her sensor analyses will be full of errors. You could be putting your lives at risk.
JANEWAY: Don't worry Seven, I'll check her work.
SEVEN: This mission could be better served with a more experienced crew.
JANEWAY: No, not this mission. Ever hear the tale of the Good Shepherd? If even one sheep strayed into the wilderness, the shepherd left the safety of the flock and went after it.
SEVEN: So you're intending to rescue them?
JANEWAY: In a manner of speaking. Maybe all it will take will be some personal attention from their Captain. Maybe something more. But I won't abandon a member of this crew, no matter what their problems might be.

[Mess hall]

(Harren is at a table by himself, working on a PADD.)
PARIS: Oh, poor guy. Rotting away down on deck fifteen. Counting the years till we get out of this godforsaken quadrant. It's a shame he doesn't have a superior officer who cares.
TORRES: It's not my job to make everybody who works for me happy. Some people just don't want to fit in.
NEELIX: I'll bet you haven't said two words to him.
PARIS: Two words exactly. We collided in the corridor during a Borg attack. I said, excuse me. Since we were at Red alert and about to be destroyed, I think it was very considerate of me.
TORRES: Well, Mister Considerate, why don't you go over there right now and offer him some encouragement. His first away mission, I'm sure he could use it.
(Paris does.)
PARIS: Brushing up on the Delta Flyer specs?
HARREN: I'm not a mechanic.
PARIS: Oh. Then, what are you doing?
(He looks at Harren's PADD.)
PARIS: Very interesting.
HARREN: What do you find most interesting about it?
PARIS: Your creative use of the minus sign.
HARREN: I see you have an appreciation for multivariate analysis. Maybe you missed your calling. It's a shame. I imagine it gets tedious up at the helm.
PARIS: I enjoy the view.
(Paris returns to his comrades.)
TORRES: Well?
PARIS: I invited him over to watch our television set tonight. You don't mind, do you?

[Celes' quarters]

TELFER [OC]: Celes. Celes. Respond. Celes, respond.
CELES: You're not sick.
TELFER [OC]: Yes, I am.
CELES: No, you're not.
TELFER [OC]: Really

[Telfer's quarters]

TELFER: I am.
CELES [OC]: We have to sleep.
TELFER: I can't go on this mission.
CELES [OC]: Yes, you can.
TELFER: No, I can't.
CELES [OC]: Yes.
TELFER: No.

[Celes' quarters]

CELES: Bye.

[Telfer's quarters]

TELFER: Wait!

[Sickbay]

TELFER: See?
EMH: It's nothing.
TELFER: It's a fever.
EMH: Your temperature is point two degrees above normal.
TELFER: That's right.
EMH: A typical deviation easily prompted by emotional stress.
TELFER: Or a multiphasic prion.
EMH: You have not been infected by a prion.
TELFER: They attach themselves to the mitochondrial walls and they just
EMH: I've already scanned you.
TELFER: You can barely see them.
EMH: They aren't there.
TELFER: If they migrate to my cell membranes while I'm on the away mission, they could rupture and I
EMH: Crewman, I am not giving you a medical excuse. Not this time. Try to get some sleep. You shouldn't even have a medical tricorder. Believe me, you'll be so caught up in the excitement of exploration there won't be any time for worrying about infections, mitochondrial or otherwise. There's nothing like an away mission to remind a person of why we're out here.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

JANEWAY: I'm going to one quarter impulse.
CELES: Should I start the sensor sweeps?
JANEWAY: We don't want to miss anything.
(Whumph.)
JANEWAY: Engine status?
HARREN: Within parameters. That wasn't us.
JANEWAY: Anything on sensors?
CELES: Point zero zero five fluctuation in the spatial continuum. It looks like simple background noise.
(Janeway checks Celes' console.)
JANEWAY: I agree.
TELFER [OC]: Anybody for lunch?
JANEWAY: Are you volunteering, William?
TELFER [OC]: Yes, ma'am.
CELES: I'll help. What would you like, Captain?
JANEWAY: Mortimer?
HARREN: Even my mother didn't call me that.
JANEWAY: Well then, Mister Harren, are you hungry?
HARREN: No. Thank you.
JANEWAY: I'll have the pasta soup. It should be listed under Neelix six five one.
CELES: Maybe I'll try that, too.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you'll like it.
CELES: I'm sure I will. Thanks for the suggestion. I'd better get back there.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

CELES: Neelix six five one, two servings.
TELFER: Neelix six five one, two servings. What's wrong?
CELES: The captain checks every single thing I do.
TELFER: Oh, that's just standard procedure.
CELES: Then why isn't it standard procedure for you or Harren?
TELFER: Maybe she's giving you special attention.
CELES: Yeah, because she knows I need it. I wish I could go back to Voyager.
TELFER: Me too. There's always the escape pods.
CELES: Can you imagine?

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

JANEWAY: I understand you grew up on Vico Five. No wonder you became a cosmologist.
HARREN: Wildest sky in the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: So they say. I've never been there.
HARREN: Do you really believe that childhood environment is more important than genetically driven behaviour patterns?
JANEWAY: Just making conversation.
HARREN: Conversation filled with unspoken assumptions, which I don't agree with. I'm a product of my nucleic acids. Where and how I was raised are beside the point. So if you're trying to understand me better, questions about my home planet are irrelevant.
JANEWAY: All right then. How's your thirteenth chromosome? Missing a couple of base pairs in gene one seventy eight?
HARREN: I signed on to Voyager because I needed a year of hands-on experience. It was a requirement for getting into the Institute of Cosmology on Orion One. If we hadn't gotten lost in the Delta Quadrant, I'd be there right now.
JANEWAY: Sorry to have delayed your career plans, but all of us have had our lives interrupted. That's the nature of space exploration. It's unpredictable.
HARREN: Which is why I don't like space exploration. Stumbling from star to star like a, a drunken insect careening toward a light source is not my idea of a dignified existence. Pure theory is all that concerns me.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm not trying to change that. I'm simply trying to get every member of my crew working to their full capacity. That includes you, Mister Harren.
HARREN: You don't feel responsible, Captain, for having three misfits aboard your ship? Well, if there's anything I can do to help relieve your guilt, please let me know.
JANEWAY: I'll keep that in mind.
HARREN: Maybe I will join my colleagues for lunch. All this exploration has given me an appetite.
JANEWAY: Computer, identify the source of that spatial fluctuation.
COMPUTER: Source unknown.
(Big Whumph! A piece flies off the Flyer as it tumbles.)
JANEWAY: Red alert! Aft section, report. Report!
CELES: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: We need to get propulsion back online and figure out what hit us. What's out there?
CELES: I don't know, but whatever it was, it tore a plating section off the outer hull.
HARREN: Ninety percent of our antimatter's been neutralised. The reaction's cold.
TELFER: So much for warp drive.
HARREN: I'm bringing the impulse engines online, but they've been damaged. We'll be able to do one eighth impulse, no more.
TELFER: That should get us to the rendezvous point with Voyager in about ten years. Think they'll wait for us?
JANEWAY: Is the subspace transmitter online? Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer. We've been hit by an unknown phenomenon and taken heavy damage. We require immediate assistance. Repeat, we require immediate assistance. Transmit that continuously on all subspace frequencies. Anything on active scans?
CELES: Not yet.
HARREN: It was a dark-matter proto-comet.
JANEWAY: I read a paper on that phenomenon once.
HARREN: Written by me.
JANEWAY: Well, enlighten us, Mister Harren.
HARREN: I hypothesised that a tertiary product of stellar consolidation would be a comet-like assemblage of dark matter. It would be attracted to any source of antimatter and neutralise it upon contact.
TELFER: So one of these things detected the antimatter in our warp core?
HARREN: The term detected suggests a consciousness. This is a mindless astrophysical phenomenon, nothing more. We should eject our remaining antimatter or we could suffer another impact.
JANEWAY: I can't do that, not on the basis of an unproven hypothesis.
HARREN: The forces involved are non-trivial. If we're hit again, we could lose our entire outer hull.
JANEWAY: Eject the warp core and we lose any hope of getting warp drive back. I need more evidence, and right now sensors aren't talking.
HARREN: Maybe they are talking, but somebody doesn't know how to listen to them.
JANEWAY: You're out of line, crewman.
HARREN: This isn't the time to be worried about her feelings, Captain. We're in trouble.
CELES: Captain, that hull plate? It's less than ten kilometres away. Impact from a dark-matter body might have left a quantum signature in the alloys.
JANEWAY: That's the evidence we're looking for. Do we have transporters?
TELFER: Yes, I've locked onto the plate.
JANEWAY: Beam it directly to the aft section. Celes, you're with me. Continue the repairs.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(They scan the hull plate.)
JANEWAY: No sign of burns or plasma residue. It seems to have been sheared off. Download this into the main computer.
CELES: Captain, I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: For what?
CELES: I thought that spatial fluctuation we ran into was background noise. Some noise.
JANEWAY: I saw the same sensor readings you did, and came to the same conclusion. You don't have to doubt yourself all the time.
CELES: Yes I do, and you should too. You're right to always be looking over my shoulder.
JANEWAY: We all make mistakes, even me.
CELES: Every day? Every time you report for duty? On Voyager it doesn't matter because nothing I do is that critical. Seven doesn't trust me with anything important. The crew is protected from my mistakes by the people around me, but out here I could get us killed.
JANEWAY: You went through Starfleet training courses.
CELES: I had to cram for every exam.
JANEWAY: At the Academy, I was infamous for my all-nighters.
CELES: Every night? Because that's what it took. That's the only way I made it through. Not to mention the sympathy votes. The conflict on Bajor worked in my favour. The Federation was so eager to have Bajorans in Starfleet that my instructors gave me the benefit of the doubt. So did you, when you accepted my application.
JANEWAY: You showed evidence of unconventional thinking. I liked that. Not everybody would have thought to retrieve that hull plating.
CELES: Well, just don't trust me with the analysis. I guarantee I'll get it wrong.
JANEWAY: Well, with that attitude, I'm sure you will.
CELES: This has nothing to do with attitude, Captain. You and I are wired differently. To you, this is nothing but data. To me, it, it's a monster with, with fangs and claws. In my nightmares, I am chased by algorithms. My brain just wasn't built to understand this.
JANEWAY: We can find you another post on Voyager.
CELES: There isn't another post on Voyager, not for me. Unless you need a waitress in the mess hall.
JANEWAY: You know, there's more to duty than the ability to manipulate algorithms. Everybody on Voyager has showed a courage far beyond what I could have expected. So have you.
CELES: If we were still in the Alpha Quadrant, would that be enough to keep me on board?
JANEWAY: I can't answer that.
CELES: I don't deserve to be on your ship, Captain. And I'm not really a part of Voyager. I just live there.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

(Harren is doing the practical work while Telfer scans himself for symptoms.)
HARREN: Pressure's increasing. The EPS relays are fused. Cut the plasma flow. Cut the plasma! (Bang!) I could have been killed! What's wrong with you?
TELFER: Everything.
HARREN: If you want something to fantasise about, try imagining how it'll feel if our hull is breached and we die of vacuum exposure. Our blood will vaporise and our cell membranes will rupture. Surely you know the symptoms better than I do.
TELFER: Let's not talk about it, all right?
HARREN: Nothing disagrees with me more than having to put theories into practical use, but there's no choice, so pay attention to what we're doing here. You can check yourself into Sickbay when we get back.
TELFER: And you can go back to deck fifteen.
HARREN: That's right, where I don't have to rely on you or your intellectually deficient friend.
TELFER: At least I have a friend. Don't you ever get lonely down there?
HARREN: In the company of my own thoughts? Never.
TELFER: I don't believe that. Spend some time with us when we get back. You might enjoy yourself.
HARREN: A hypothesis that would require testing. I'm a theoretician, remember?

Captain's log, Delta Flyer, stardate, 53764.3. We've been running on minimal power for six hours. Still no response to our distress call, and no answers from the computer on what hit us. For now, it looks like we're on our own.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

JANEWAY: Our scans of the hull fragment were inconclusive. We found some displaced positrons that could indicate a dark-matter impact.
TELFER: But could have been caused by something else.
HARREN: Proof enough.
JANEWAY: Not enough for me. Not enough to jettison the remaining antimatter. There's a gas giant only a few hours from our current position. T class, surrounded by orbital rings, including one that's radiogenic. We could use those particles to reinitialise our warp reaction.
TELFER: With ten percent of our antimatter left we'd only be able to make warp two, but it would be enough to get us back on the road.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
CELES: Another spatial fluctuation.
JANEWAY: Can you localise it?
CELES: It's somewhere within the distance of ten thousand kilometres. Another one closer, about seven thousand kilometres.
HARREN: It's being drawn toward our antimatter. Eject the core.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. All hailing frequencies. This is Captain Janeway of the Federation vessel Delta Flyer. We are on a mission of peaceful exploration. Please identify yourself.
TELFER: No response.
HARREN: Of course not. It's a natural phenomenon. Captain, we only have a few seconds.
JANEWAY: I'm firing a photon torpedo. There's enough antimatter in the detonation chamber to draw that proto-comet, if that's what it is.
TELFER: The torpedo's away. Distance, one thousand kilometres. One thousand five hundred.
CELES: No spatial disruptions.
JANEWAY: Find the source of that sound.
(They all use tricorders.)
TELFER: Oh, no.
(Telfer disappears.)
HARREN: That's not possible.
JANEWAY: Where is he?
CELES: I can't locate his bio-signature.
JANEWAY: He's not out there. He's not in space, not in subspace. It doesn't make sense.
(Telfer reappears and collapses.)
TELFER: Inside me.
(Something moves under his skin.)

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

JANEWAY: Activate the transporter. Try to get a lock on whatever's inside him. Tricorder isn't picking up anything.
TELFER: But I can feel it.
CELES: I can't get a lock. It's like something is there, but it's not there.
TELFER: Oh, it's there.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, I have to agree.
HARREN: Obviously, whatever hit us was no proto-comet. I was wrong.
JANEWAY: Maybe you weren't, not entirely. Sensors can't scan it and transporters can't lock on to it. Maybe this is some kind of dark-matter lifeform.
HARREN: It's impossible. Molecules that complex would collapse under their own weight. They could never support life.
JANEWAY: It might be time to revise your theory. Where did they take you?
TELFER: I don't know. It was dark. God, I could feel breathing all around me.
JANEWAY: Did anyone try to communicate with you?
TELFER: I couldn't see. I tried to say something, but there wasn't enough air. I tried to move, but something was pressing down on me. Hypospray. Tetrovaline. It will put me out.
JANEWAY: If I sedate you, it could lower your immune response, and you need to stay conscious. Do you understand?
CELES: Billy, if it wanted to kill you it would have done it by now. It never would have sent you back here. Maybe it was trying to scan you or something.
TELFER: If it wanted to get to know me better, it should have just asked me out for a drink.
(Janeway activates a forcefield over Telfer.)
JANEWAY: Celes, keep an eye in him. Harren.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

JANEWAY: I'm setting a course for those rings. Shunt as much power as you can to the impulse engines.
HARREN: We never should have left Voyager.
JANEWAY: I've got news for you, crewman. Voyager isn't exactly a safe haven. We've been chased across the Quadrant by far worse than whatever's out there. The Vidiians, Species 8472, the Borg. But I guess if somebody's hiding down on deck fifteen they might not be aware of it.
HARREN: I wasn't meant to be an explorer.
JANEWAY: And I wasn't meant to guide a ship across an unknown Quadrant.
HARREN: Then we're both victims of circumstance.
JANEWAY: Oh, I've seen things I've never imagined. Grown closer to people than I ever thought possible. I wouldn't call myself a victim, and I wouldn't trade the last six years for anything.
HARREN: Then you've been deluded by the inexhaustible human capacity to avoid the truth. You're the one hiding, not me. I've got you three more percentage points of impulse.
JANEWAY: I'll take it. Setting a course. Isn't there any part of you that feels a bond with the rest of us? When we escape from the Borg or discover a new type of star, don't you feel some pride of accomplishment? When you're in the mess hall, alone at your table in the corner, don't you see the friendships around you and wish, even for a microsecond, you were part of them?
HARREN: You don't know me at all.
JANEWAY: No, but I'd like to. That was the whole point of this mission. But I guess it hasn't worked out like I'd planned.
HARREN: Incoming transmission.
JANEWAY: Source?
HARREN: It's a Starfleet frequency. Must be Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer. We've been hit by an unknown phenomenon and taken heavy damage. We require immediate assistance. Repeat, we require immediate assistance.
HARREN: Subspace echo.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. There's a point zero zero five deviation in the carrier wave.
HARREN: That's the same degree of spatial fluctuation left by our pursuers. They're sending our distress signal back to us.
JANEWAY: Modified. They might be trying to communicate.
HARREN: They're taunting us.
JANEWAY: Not necessarily. Try to adjust the universal translator for
CELES: Captain! He went right through the forcefield.
JANEWAY: Billy, what are you doing?
TELFER: It's activating my motor neurons. I can't make it stop. I'm sorry, Captain. You've got to stop it.
(Janeway phasers Telfer. He staggers backwards)
CELES: It's okay. Billy, it's okay. It's okay.
TELFER: It's in here!
(A large alien earwig comes out of him and gets onto a panel.)
HARREN: It's tapping into our systems.
JANEWAY: Wait. It may be trying to communicate.
HARREN: It's into our environmental controls. We've got to stop it.
(The console explodes.)
JANEWAY: Hold your fire!
(Harren vaporises it.)
JANEWAY: What the hell is wrong with you?
HARREN: It was trying to kill us.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
HARREN: We were at risk.
JANEWAY: I gave you a direct order.
HARREN: What if you were wrong?
TELFER: I could hear its thoughts.
JANEWAY: Explain.
TELFER: When it left me I could hear what it was thinking. Do not belong. That's what it said. Do not belong.
HARREN: We don't belong here.
CELES: Or it didn't belong in the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's why it was tapping into the environmental controls. It was trying to survive in a place it didn't belong.
HARREN: That's speculation.
JANEWAY: Based on direct observation. You murdered an alien being and destroyed any chance we had to make first contact.
(Whumph!)
CELES: We just lost another section of hull.
JANEWAY: How far are we from the gas giant?
CELES: Two hundred thousand kilometres.
JANEWAY: I'm taking the Flyer into the radiogenic ring. With any luck, they won't follow.
CELES: We can't survive in there for more than a few minutes.
JANEWAY: That should be enough to reinitialise the warp core.
(They fly into the rings.)
JANEWAY: Start continuous transport of radiogenic particles directly into the reaction chamber. When it's approaching critical mass, let me know. Watch for any sign of pursuit. How are you doing?
TELFER: I always had this alarm in my head, Sort of an internal Red alert. It was like a warning system that would tell me I was sick or dying, or something. Mitochondrial prions, food poisoning, a head cold. It was always there.
JANEWAY: And now it's not?
TELFER: It's gone. I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Maybe I do. When I was a girl, I was afraid of the ocean. I liked to swim, but in a pool or a pond where I knew exactly what was beneath me. But in the open water, with no way to know what was down there? It scared me to death. It wasn't until my first year at the Academy, after I went through zero G training in the Coral Sea, that I finally got over it. I think you just came up from your first deep dive.
CELES: They're in pursuit.
(Something invisible is making the ring fragments move apart.)
CELES: Three minutes, twenty seconds to intercept.
HARREN: We'll need twice that to reinitialise warp reaction.
JANEWAY: Get into the escape pods.
CELES: Captain.
JANEWAY: Plot a course away from the planet. I'm going to fire a phaser volley and hopefully set off a chain reaction of the radiogenic particles. It might be enough to disable our friends.
TELFER: You'll be disabled, too.
JANEWAY: Not if I go to full thrusters and keep in front of the shock wave. If I don't make it, head for the L class moon in the next system. You could survive there for weeks if you have to. Enough time for Voyager to pick up your distress signal. Now get moving.
CELES: No. You'll have a better chance if we're with you.
JANEWAY: Go!
CELES: We might not have contributed much on Voyager, but what we do here matters. We're the crew here, and the crew does not abandon its Captain.
JANEWAY: All right, it's your choice.
HARREN: Then I'll be going alone.
JANEWAY: Good luck.
(Harren leaves.)
JANEWAY: Charge phaser banks. Stand by to divert all power to thrusters.
CELES: Escape pod one is occupied and ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Launch pod one.
TELFER: Escape pod away.
JANEWAY: How close are our pursuers?
CELES: Sixty five seconds to intercept.
JANEWAY: Stand by to fire.
CELES: Captain, the escape pod is altering course. It's heading for the aliens.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Harren.

[Escape pod]

JANEWAY [OC]: What are you doing?
HARREN: If they have to deal with me, it should give you a few more seconds to get away. That's my theory, anyway.
JANEWAY [OC]: Resume your escape course now.
HARREN: It's too late for that.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

JANEWAY: You made a mistake, Harren. Don't make another one.
HARREN [OC]: I'm done hiding, Captain.

[Escape pod]

HARREN: A few seconds of exposure to real life, maybe I'll understand what I've been missing.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

TELFER: He closed the channel.
JANEWAY: Get a transporter lock on that pod,
CELES: I can't. We're out of range.
JANEWAY: More power to the thrusters. Celes.
CELES: We're still not close enough.
TELFER: Thrusters at maximum.
(The Flyer swoops in and away.)
CELES: Got him.
JANEWAY: Fire.
(The ring fragments ignite.)
CELES: Shock wave approaching. Contact in four, three, two, one. More or less.
(Whumph.)

[Sickbay]

(Janeway wakes on a biobed.)
JANEWAY: My crew
CHAKOTAY: Easy. They're sleeping. No serious injuries. Everyone's all right, though you gave us a good scare for a while. We received your distress call. We found the Flyer drifting above a gas giant. You were all unconscious.
JANEWAY: Any sign of another vessel or some kind of entity?
CHAKOTAY: No. What happened?
JANEWAY: The good shepherd went after some lost sheep, and ran into a wolf.
CHAKOTAY: Did she find them?
JANEWAY: I think she did.


S6 E21
Live Fast And Prosper
Stardate: 53849.2
Original Airdate: 19 April 2000

[Telsian mine]
(A saurian runs along a mine tunnel.)
MINER 1: You're late.
MINER 2: There was a problem with the pulse drills on level four.
MINER 1: They're going to be here any moment. I want to make a good impression.
MINER 2: You're certain we should be doing this?
MINER 1: Orek will be pleased that we took the initiative.
MINER 2: I hope you're right.
(Two figures in Starfleet uniforms beam in.)
MINER 1: Welcome to Telsius.
DALA: Thank you. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. This is Commander Tuvok. We're from the Federation Starship Voyager.
(The resemblances are close, but not quite right. Janeway's hair is too think, Tuvok is too stocky and the comm. badges are much bigger.)
DALA: We have several mines like this on Earth.
MINER 1: I'm not familiar with Earth.
DALA: That's because it's thirty thousand light years from here.
MOBAR: Thirty thousand three hundred forty two point four to be exact.
MINER 1: You're a long way from home.
DALA: It's difficult sometimes, then I close my eyes and think of the farm in Indiana where I grew up. For a moment I'm home again. Shall we get down to business?
MINER 1: Yes. We've had a shortage of dilithium for the last two months. If we can't replenish our supply we may be forced to suspend work.
MINER 2: Our chief of mining operations has gone to the Grenna system.
MINER 1: Yes, but we are authorised to conduct trades in his absence.
MOBAR: What are you prepared to trade?
MINER 1: I'm afraid the only commodity we have is, er, bolomite.
DALA: We really don't have much use for that.
MOBAR: On the contrary, Captain. Bolomite is used in omega radiation therapy. The orphans on Narva
MINER 1: Orphans?
MOBAR: The settlers on the Narva colony were exposed to toxic levels of omega radiation. The entire adult population was killed.
DALA: We're doing all we can for the children. All right, twenty kilotons of dilithium for an equivalent amount of bolomite.
MINER 1: We only have ten kilotons left.
DALA: Then ten it is.
MOBAR: Captain, I must point out that dilithium is worth nearly twice as much as bolomite.
DALA: Tuvok, these people need our help. I'm not going to quibble over a few tons of ore.
MINER 2: Perhaps we should celebrate.
DALA: I wish we could, but there's a neutronic storm approaching our ship. We should be leaving orbit.
MINER 1: Give us an hour to finalise the arrangements.
DALA: We'll be waiting to hear from you.
MOBAR: Before we leave, would it be possible to tour your facility? It's our duty as Starfleet officers
DALA: Unfortunately the storm won't wait. Maybe on our next visit.
(Mobar gives the Vulcan salute.)
MOBAR: Live long and prosper.

[Dala's ship]

(An ugly, boxy thing. Part of the interior is like Voyager's bridge, mostly the Captain's chair. There is the UFP symbol on a wall panel behind it.)
DALA: Ugh! This hair is so uncomfortable.
(She removes the wig.)
MOBAR: I find it aesthetically pleasing.
ZAR: The negotiations?
DALA: It would've been perfect if Tuvok hadn't decided to improvise.
MOBAR: I was portraying my character as truthfully as possible.
DALA: Once we finish a transaction, we leave. Is that clear?
MOBAR: Indeed.
ZAR: Incoming transmission for Captain Janeway.
DALA: Ready. This is Captain Janeway.
MINER 1 [on viewscreen]: The bolomite is ready for transport. We thank you for your generosity.
DALA: Directive nine twenty seven of the Starfleet General Order. Always help those in need.
ZAR: Transport complete.
DALA: We've enjoyed meeting you, gentlemen.
MINER 1 [on viewscreen]: Er, Captain, we haven't received the dilithium yet.
DALA: Oh, the neutronic storm seems to be interfering with our transporters. If we don't leave orbit immediately, we will sustain heavy damage.
MINER 2 [on viewscreen]: What about our dilithium?
DALA: We'll be back to deliver it as soon as the storm clears.
MINER 2 [on viewscreen]: Well, how long will that be
DALA: Captain Janeway out.
(Transmission ends in a shower of static.)
DALA: Let's go.

[Janeway's quarters]

JANEWAY: Computer, activate the sonic shower.
(It is audible.)
JANEWAY: Oh, adjust the frequency. 
(The pitch rises to painful levels.)
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate the sonic shower!
(Her bathroom mirror shatters)

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: We've got systems failures on eight decks, Captain.
JANEWAY: That explains why my sonic shower was a little louder than usual.
TORRES: Make that nine decks. I've run every diagnostic I know and I can't seem to isolate the problem.
JANEWAY: Gremlins.
TORRES: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: In the early days of aviation, engineers blamed imaginary little creatures called gremlins for malfunctions they could not explain.
TORRES: Well, one of your gremlins just paid a visit to the replicator system.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix is serving a meal. I think steamed cabbage is involved.)
KIM: Tuvok, we saved you a seat.
PARIS: What's wrong?
TUVOK: Someone has altered one of my holodeck programs. Again.
PARIS: Are you sure it isn't just one of these malfunctions?
KIM: Everything on the ship's been affected, including the holodecks.
TUVOK: The Oracle of K'Tal isn't programmed to wear pyjamas.
PARIS: Well, maybe he overslept.
TUVOK: I am not amused by your practical jokes, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Why do you always think it's me?
TUVOK: Mister Kim?
KIM: I'd like to claim credit, but I'm innocent.
TUVOK: The next time I visit the holodeck, I expect to find my programme restored to its original parameters.
PARIS: I'm telling you, Tuvok, we didn't do it.
KIM: I wonder how the Oracle would look in a sombrero.
(Janeway and Torres enter.)
TORRES: Everybody stop eating!
NEELIX: Captain, what's wrong?
JANEWAY: If I could have everyone's attention for a moment. We found a contaminant in the replicator system. It's nothing serious, but if any of you start to feel a little queasy, report to Sickbay immediately. In the meantime the galley is closed.
KIM: I wish I hadn't had seconds. 

[Galley]

JANEWAY: Here.
(One of the heating areas on the 'stove'.
TORRES: Well, that explains it.
(The heating unit is a very nasty colour.)
NEELIX: Don't tell me a simple heating coil in the stove is responsible for everything that's gone wrong this morning.
JANEWAY: Any component connected to the integrated circuitry can spread a contaminant.
TORRES: This isn't Starfleet issue.
JANEWAY: Where did it come from?
NEELIX: I obtained it during a trade.
JANEWAY: With whom?
NEELIX: Sister Dala.
JANEWAY: Sister?
NEELIX: One of the clerics on Selnia Prime. Tom and I met her during our away mission. She was the one trying to help all those poor orphans. It's all in our report.
TORRES: Did you run a diagnostic before you installed it?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: I'm a little busy now. Can it wait?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: I'll be right back.

[Bridge]

OREK [on viewscreen]: One excuse after another. You're stalling, and I don't have time for it.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this is Mister Orek. He's chief of mining operations on Telsius Prime.
JANEWAY: A problem, Mister Orek?
OREK [on viewscreen]: Not if you deliver our dilithium.
JANEWAY: Dilithium?
OREK [on viewscreen]: It's all clearly documented. Ten kilotons of bolomite ore in exchange for ten kilotons of dilithium.
JANEWAY: I think there's been some sort of misunderstanding.
OREK [on viewscreen]: One way or another, I intend to collect what you owe me.

[Briefing room]

DALA [on monitor]: We've enjoyed meeting you, gentlemen.
MINER 1 [OC]: Captain, we haven't received the dilithium yet
DALA [on monitor]: Oh, the neutronic storm seems to be interfering with our transporters. If we don't leave orbit immediately, we will sustain heavy damage.
MINER 2 [OC]: What about our dilithium?
DALA [on monitor]: We'll be back to deliver it as soon as the storm clears.
OREK: Do you still deny you made the trade?
JANEWAY: That woman isn't me.
OREK: Who is she then?
JANEWAY: Well, she's obviously an impostor.
OREK: I have transmission logs, transport records, scans of your shuttlecraft.
JANEWAY: I have never been to your planet, Mister Orek, aboard Voyager or any other vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Our ship's logs will confirm what the captain's been telling you.
OREK: And how do I know they're authentic records?
TUVOK: How do we know your records are authentic?
OREK: You think I falsified data? Why would I do that?
TUVOK: Perhaps to extort dilithium from us.
OREK: I'm not the thief here.
JANEWAY: We are not questioning your integrity, Mister Orek. It does appear you've been cheated, but not by me or anyone one on my crew.
OREK: How naive do you think I am? First, you prey upon the sympathy of my miners by telling them stories about poor, orphaned children. Now you try to convince me you're the victims here.
JANEWAY: Did you say orphaned children?
OREK: A despicable tactic.
JANEWAY: Will you excuse me for a minute, please?
(Janeway leaves)
OREK: We are not finished!

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Captain. We're making real progress.
JANEWAY: Never mind that. Tell me more about this cleric who gave you the heating coil.
NEELIX: Ah. Sister Dala. What do you want to know?
JANEWAY: Everything.
NEELIX: Well, Tom and I met her during our away mission. We were on a small planetoid in the Wyanti system

[Cavern]

NEELIX [OC]: Searching for the spore the Doctor wanted to grow antiviral proteins with.
PARIS: I tell you, Neelix, when I first joined Starfleet I knew it was going to be one glamorous adventure after another, but I never dreamed that I'd have the opportunity to go on a mould-hunting expedition.
NEELIX: I'm detecting traces of glamour in this direction.
(They are stopped by a woman in a long robe, holding a candle.)
DALA: Please, go no further. This is our sanctuary.
PARIS: Our scans didn't detect anyone down here.
MOBAR: Our sect is a solitary one. We dampen our life signs to protect the privacy of our meditations.
NEELIX: We're terribly sorry if we've disturbed you.
DALA: Begin the cleansing.
(Mobar holds out a gizmo he has hanging around his neck. The top glows green in a horseshoe shape.)
MOBAR: Olat mal pri, mal pral, mal prolat. Olate kal mi, kal mal, kal molat.
NEELIX: I hope we haven't committed a serious transgression.
DALA: The transgression was ours. We should have guarded the sanctuary more carefully. The deities will be angry.
PARIS: Come on, Neelix, we'd better get out of the way.
NEELIX: Of course. Our sincere apologies. If there's anything that we can do?
DALA: Forgive me but, you look familiar.
NEELIX: I don't think that we've ever met before.
DALA: Do you see it?
MOBAR: Yes.
DALA: You bear a striking resemblance to our Redeemer of Light.
NEELIX: I'm flattered.
DALA: Each spring we make a pilgrimage to Narva in his honour, to help the orphans.
NEELIX: That's a very worthy cause.
DALA: It is. Unfortunately, we have no food to bring them this year.
PARIS: Why not?
MOBAR: A blight infected our hydroponic pods. The crop was destroyed.
NEELIX: Maybe we could replicate some food for you.
MOBAR: We bestow charity on others. The deities forbid us from accepting it ourselves.
NEELIX: How about a trade?
PARIS: Good idea. You must have something that we can use.
NEELIX: That way you wouldn't be accepting charity, and the deities would have nothing to get angry about.
DALA: Your heart is as kind as your face.
MOBAR: May the deities bless you.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: That's when they gave you the heating coil?
NEELIX: It was going to take a while to replicate the supplies they needed, so we invited them back to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: That's when they must have gotten access to our systems.
NEELIX: Captain?
JANEWAY: Did you leave either of them alone at any point?
NEELIX: I don't think so. Er, after we ate, Tom took Brother Mobar to see the cockpit, but I stayed in the aft section with Sister Dala, talking.
JANEWAY: About what?
NEELIX: Me, mostly. She wanted to know all about my role on Voyager.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

DALA: Ambassador, morale officer, head chef. It sounds as though you're invaluable.
NEELIX: I do what I can.
DALA: Where is your Voyager now?
NEELIX: About three light years from here.
DALA: Your crew is alone in this region?
NEELIX: We are the only Federation Starship within thirty thousand light years.
DALA: That must be difficult.
NEELIX: Sometimes it is, but we manage. We've single-handedly taken on the Borg, the Hirogen, Species 8472.
DALA: I'm impressed.
NEELIX: Captain Janeway deserves most of the credit. She's an extraordinary woman.
DALA: Your Captain is a woman?
NEELIX: The finest one I've ever known.
DALA: Tell me about her.
NEELIX: Well, she's commanded Voyager for almost six years now. Before that, she was a science officer on the Al-Batani.
DALA: Where does she come from?
NEELIX: Earth. It's in the Alpha Quadrant. She grew up on a little farm in a place called Indiana. You'd like her.
DALA: I'm sure I would.
MOBAR: Sister Dala.
DALA: Yes, Brother Mobar.
MOBAR: It's late. We must return to the sanctuary.
NEELIX: So soon?
DALA: It's time for the evening meditation. We can't thank you enough for all you've done.
NEELIX: We're just glad that we could help.
DALA: The blessing.
MOBAR: Certainly.
(He holds out his gizmo. Neelix and Paris are obliged to close their eyes and lower their heads in prayer.)
MOBAR: May the deities bless these travellers. Tala ot val. Tala ot relina. Sen tala. Sen relina. Val golina. Su ketran. Tala otval. Tala ot relina.

[Engineering]

NEELIX: Then we transported them back to their sanctuary.
JANEWAY: How long did this blessing last?
NEELIX: No more than a minute or two.
JANEWAY: That's probably all they needed.
NEELIX: For what?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(Janeway finishes her tricorder scans.)
JANEWAY: Just what I thought. The entire database was downloaded eighteen days ago.
NEELIX: Brother Mobar. The talisman.
JANEWAY: It was obviously some sort of scanner.
PARIS: What would a couple of religious clerics want with our database?
JANEWAY: It might help if they wanted to pose as Federation officers. Gentlemen, I believe you've been had.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: The way I see it, we're both victims. Your bolomite was stolen, and our reputation has been damaged.
OREK: What are you proposing?
JANEWAY: You said you had scanned the vessel that visited your mining colony. If you allow us to analyse them we might be able to derive the impostor's warp signature.
CHAKOTAY: We could find them and recover your property before they cheat someone else.
OREK: This is all difficult for me to believe. Two of your crewmen deceived by clerics? Huh. Could they really have been so naive?
TUVOK: A legitimate question.
JANEWAY: It's obvious we're dealing with clever adversaries. They fooled both of us, but I'm confident we can stop them.
OREK: Perhaps I should contact Telsian security. They have persuasive methods for determining the truth.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, the real thieves could be halfway across the sector, with your bolomite in their cargo hold.
(Orek slides a triangular PADD across the briefing room desk.)

[Dala's ship]

(The faux Starfleet captain is escorting a very tall reptilian.)
DALA: And finally, our bridge.
VARN: Is this a typical Federation vessel?
DALA: Well, the Delta Flyer may look a little worn, that's only because she's been through so much. This ship has helped fend off the Borg, the Hirogen, Species 8472.
VARN: Most of your technology is outdated.
DALA: Show him the mothership, Mister Chakotay.
ZAR: USS Voyager. Intrepid class, fifteen decks of the most advanced technology you'll find anywhere. Dilithium powered warp engines, integrated bioneural circuitry, holodecks.
VARN: Is this a typical Federation vessel?
DALA: Every ship in the fleet is built to exacting standards, but I'd be lying if I told you I didn't think Voyager was exceptional. As her captain, I'm not entirely objective. I'm sure you feel the same way about your ship.
VARN: It is my home.
DALA: I'm glad to hear you say that Mister Varn, because that's exactly what the Federation is. A home for an extended family who share resources and come to one another's aid in time of need.
VARN: So if my ship joins your Federation, Voyager will help me fight my enemies?
MOBAR: The primary goal of the Federation is exploration. Military objectives are
DALA: There's no need to bore our guest with Starfleet protocol, Tuvok.
VARN: My enemies have sophisticated weaponry.
ZAR: As do we. Photon torpedoes, optronically targeted phasers, multi-spectral shielding.
DALA: All of which we would not hesitate to share with a fellow member of the Federation.
VARN: What will I have to do to join?
MOBAR: In order to be considered, a candidate must make formal application. An extensive review is conducted by a committee composed of
ZAR: The process is complicated, but Captain Janeway has influence with the Federation Council.
VARN: And you would use that influence on my behalf?
DALA: I'd be foolish not to. You are just the type of candidate we're looking for.
VARN: I'll have to discuss this with my shipmates.
DALA: Well, joining the Federation is a serious commitment. Take all the time you need.
ZAR: Captain, our latest orders from Starfleet Command. We won't be back here for at least six months.
DALA: Perhaps we can discuss your application then.
VARN: If we were to apply now, could you assure us we'd be accepted?
DALA: You realise you'll have to commit considerable resources.
VARN: I'll do whatever is necessary.
DALA: Well, let me be the first to say, welcome to the Federation.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: You look like you could use a cup of coffee.
PARIS: I've been flying concentric search patterns for the last twelve hours.
NEELIX: Any sign of the impostors?
PARIS: Neelix, what has happened to us?
NEELIX: I know exactly what you mean. I've been over it a thousand times.
PARIS: Why didn't we see this coming?
NEELIX: Orphans. It's the oldest gambit in the book.
PARIS: I mean, if it'd been Harry, I could understand it. He trusts everybody. But you and me?
NEELIX: We've dealt with our share of shady characters.
PARIS: I think maybe, maybe we've lost our edge.
NEELIX: Hand me one of those terra nuts.
PARIS: What are you doing?
NEELIX: Proving you wrong.
PARIS: Ah, the old shell game. All we need now is a mark.
(The EMH enters.)
NEELIX: I think I see one coming.
PARIS: You go ahead. I'll follow your lead.
NEELIX: Now watch carefully. I place the terra nut under the cup. Then I shuffle them. Round and round they go. Keep your eye on the nut, but be careful, the hand is faster than the eye. Now, for three hours of holodeck time, can you tell me where is the terra nut?
PARIS: There. No, no, no, that one.
(He picks the middle then swaps to the left hand cup.)
NEELIX: Oh. I really thought I had you this time.
(Neelix lifts the cup to reveal the nut.)
PARIS: Oh, keep trying, Neelix. You'll fool me one of these days.
EMH: This looks like an interesting game. May I have a turn?
PARIS: Oh, be my guest. But you'll have to wager something.
EMH: If I win, you take three duty shifts in Sickbay.
NEELIX: And if I win, you take three shifts in the kitchen.
EMH: Done.
NEELIX: Ready? Now, watch carefully. Round and round they go. Follow the terra nut if you can, but be careful, the hand is faster than the eye.
PARIS: Careful, Doc. Try not to blink.
EMH: Don't you worry, Mister Paris. You have to get up pretty early in the morning to fool my optical subroutines.
NEELIX: Where is it, then?
EMH: In your left palm.
PARIS: How did you?
EMH: Superior visual acuity. See you in Sickbay.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel on long range scans. The warp signature matches the impostor's ship.
JANEWAY: Harry, tell Tom his coffee break is over. Set a pursuit course.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.

[Dala's ship]

VARN [on viewscreen]: The photon torpedoes you gave me are worthless. No better than plasma flares.
DALA: Perhaps you didn't arm them properly.
VARN [on viewscreen]: And in the middle of the battle, the Polonians warned me to cease hostilities or face destruction at the hands of your Federation. You allowed my enemies to join.
MOBAR: Evidently, the Federation Council decided that
VARN [on viewscreen]: Your Federation is a fraud. I demand reparations.
MOBAR: You will have to submit a formal report to Starfleet.
VARN [on viewscreen]: Enough! If you will not reimburse me, I'll seize your ship.
(Varn's bigger ship grabs Dala's in a tractor beam.)
DALA: Disable the beam.
MOBAR: I can't.
ZAR: We have an additional problem. Voyager.

[Bridge]

(Paris enters.)
SEVEN: There's another ship alongside the impostors. It's got them in a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Hail both vessels.
KIM: No response from either one.
JANEWAY: Well, let's try to get their attention. Mister Tuvok.

[Dala's ship]

ZAR: Voyager's charging weapons.
MOBAR: Perhaps we should surrender to them. The Federation has an extremely humane policy regarding the treatment of prisoners
(Their looks shut him up.)
DALA: Hail Varn again. Do it. Look on your scanners, Varn. Our mothership's arrived. She's armed and ready to defend us.
VARN [on viewscreen]: Tell them to stand down.
DALA: Release us, or Voyager will destroy you.

[Bridge]

KIM: The other ship is hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
VARN [on viewscreen]: Stand down, Voyager.
JANEWAY: I have no argument with you. However, the vessel you're tractoring
VARN [on viewscreen]: I paid for my Federation membership. The Delta Flyer belongs to me now.
JANEWAY: Sir, I think you've been misled.
VARN [on viewscreen]: Yes. I have.
(Varn shoots at Voyager.)
TUVOK: Three direct hits. Shields down to sixty percent.
JANEWAY: Target his tractor beam. Nobody is taking possession of the Delta Flyer today except us.
(The tractor beam is disabled, and Dala starts to fly away.)
JANEWAY: Lock onto them.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
(Big Whumph! and consoles explode.)
CHAKOTAY: Now our tractor generator's offline.
TUVOK: Shields down to forty one percent.
PARIS: The impostor's ship is powering engines.
JANEWAY: Seven, transport everyone on that vessel directly to the Brig.
SEVEN: Establishing a lock on three life signs. That impact damaged the transporters. I'm losing annular confinement.
JANEWAY: Harry, reroute additional power.
CHAKOTAY: They're gone.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: I only got one of them.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Brig]

(Janeway and Tuvok visit their new prisoner.)
JANEWAY: Nice hair.
DALA: It's not really my taste.
JANEWAY: Posing as a Starfleet captain, selling memberships to the Federation. Too bad we didn't think of it, Tuvok. Imagine the resources we could have acquired over the past six years.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: I have to admit, I'm impressed.
DALA: I wish I could say the same. The great Captain Janeway. Somehow I expected you to be taller. I make a better you than you.
JANEWAY: Oh I don't know, I'd say we're very much alike. Resourceful, intelligent, ambitious. But with just one tiny difference.
DALA: And what is that?
JANEWAY: I'm not a liar and a thief. You're going to give me a detailed account of everyone you cheated, and exactly what you did with their property.
DALA: Why would I do that?
JANEWAY: Because if you don't, I'm turning you over to Telsian security.
DALA: Oh, is that supposed to frighten me?
JANEWAY: How much do you know about the Telsians?
DALA: Just that they're a more gullible species than most.
JANEWAY: Tell her about your research, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon, Captain?
JANEWAY: On Telsian law. I think it's only fair that we let our guest know what to expect.
TUVOK: The Telsian criminal justice system is rather barbaric.
JANEWAY: Tell her about the prisons.
TUVOK: Barely habitable. Inmates often die of malnutrition before they are brought to trial. Torture is commonplace, as is disease, including several incurable forms of psoriasis.
JANEWAY: I think she gets the general idea.
DALA: Suppose I do tell you. How do I know you won't turn me over to the Telsians anyway?
JANEWAY: If you make full restitution to your victims, I'll give you safe passage out of this area.
DALA: Is that a promise, Captain?
JANEWAY: I know it's hard for you to believe, but occasionally some of us tell the truth.
DALA: Give me the Delta Flyer and three days to get as far away from here as I can, and then I'll send you the information you want.
JANEWAY: How naive do you think I am?
DALA: As far as the victims are concerned, you're the one who cheated them. Without my help, you'll be the one who has a problem leaving this sector.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, contact Telsian security. Tell them we have a prisoner to turn over.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Psoriasis?
TUVOK: Improvisation is not foremost among my talents.
JANEWAY: Considering I caught you off guard, I thought your performance was exemplary.
TUVOK: Thank you, Captain. Was your order to call the Telsians part of the deception or did you actually want me to contact them?
JANEWAY: Not yet. Let's give Dala some time to think about those barbaric prisons.
TUVOK: Do you believe she'll relent?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. Something tells me she's just as stubborn as I am.
TUVOK: Then am I to assume you have an alternative plan?
JANEWAY: I'm like you, Tuvok. Making it up as I go along.

[Brig]    

(Neelix enters with a tray of food.)
NEELIX: The Captain said bread and water, but I didn't see any harm.
DALA: I'm not hungry.
(The forcefield is taken down and he goes into the cell.)
NEELIX:  I'll just leave it here in case you change your mind. May I ask you something?
DALA: You want to know if you really resemble the Redeemer of Light?
NEELIX: I'm not that gullible.
DALA: Then what?
NEELIX: Do you ever feel guilty? Taking advantage of people who actually think that you care about them?
DALA: You seem like a good person. I'm sorry I lied to you.
NEELIX: Actually, I think you're just sorry you got caught.
DALA: Probably.
NEELIX: There. Now you're being honest. I knew it was possible. If you don't mind my asking, why do you do what you do?
DALA: My father taught me most people will exploit you if they can. So, it's best to exploit them first.
NEELIX: You know, I used to be a lot like you. Living by my wits. Never trusting anyone. Always trying to end up on the more profitable side of a transaction.
DALA: And now you don't hesitate to help starving orphans.
NEELIX: I changed. When Captain Janeway made me part of the crew.
DALA: I suppose you suddenly reformed.
NEELIX: No, no. Not right away.
(He sits next to Dala.)
NEELIX: At first I was just exploiting an opportunity to get a warm bed, food, protection. I kept waiting to find out what the captain wanted in return.
DALA: But she never asked for a thing.
NEELIX: On the contrary. She expected a great deal from me. Honesty, loyalty, hard work.
DALA: I should've guessed.
NEELIX: But I discovered that those were commodities I had in abundance. And it was much more profitable to share them than it was to be self-serving and cynical all the time. I'm happier than I've ever been.
DALA: I suppose that you think I could change too.
NEELIX: Stranger things have happened.
DALA: Do you really think that she'll give me safe passage if I make restitution?
NEELIX: If that's what she promised you.
DALA: Then what? I have never done anything else.
NEELIX: Captain Janeway let Seven of Nine remain on board, and she was Borg.
DALA: Are you saying she'd do the same thing for me?
NEELIX: I'd be willing to talk to her.
DALA: I cheated you. Why are you being so kind to me?
NEELIX: Like my great grandmother used to say, it's nice to be nice.
DALA: Is that tea still warm?
(Neelix stands and pours her a cup. She drops it.)
DALA: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so clumsy!
(Neelix bends to mop up the liquid. She hits him on the back of the neck, grabs his phaser and shoots the guard.)
NEELIX: Security to the brig!
(Dala shoots Neelix and runs. Despite the Red alert, she gets to the real Delta Flyer and takes off.)

[Bridge]

KIM: She's gone.

[Dala's ship]

MOBAR: It's not right to abandon her.
ZAR: Going back is too dangerous.
MOBAR: She's our captain.
ZAR: No, she's not. And even if she were, we wouldn't be able to rescue her. We'd be captured ourselves.
MOBAR: Without Captain Janeway it will be difficult to continue our activities.
ZAR: It's too late for that.
MOBAR: There must be a logical way
ZAR: What's logical is to get as far away as we can.
MOBAR: There's a vessel approaching. It's the Delta Flyer.
ZAR: Activate the shields.
MOBAR: They're hailing. It's Captain Janeway.
ZAR: Our Janeway or theirs?
DALA [on viewscreen]: Which one did you expect?
MOBAR: I'm pleased to see you, Captain.

[Delta Flyer]

DALA: Lower the shields so I can transport aboard.
ZAR [on viewscreen]: How were you able to escape?
DALA: I'll tell you once I'm aboard.
ZAR: [on viewscreen]: It's difficult to believe you weren't detected.
DALA: Are you accusing me of something?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(Paris climbs out of the retractable biobed.)
ZAR [OC]: Being cautious. How do we know this isn't a deception?
DALA [OC]: Why would I try to deceive you?
(Paris activates the mobile emitter.)
ZAR [OC]: You could be helping Voyager capture us in exchange for your own freedom.
EMH: Are we in position?
DALA [OC]: I don't have time for this. Lower your shields and beam me aboard.
PARIS: Ready?

[Dala's ship]

MOBAR: Captain on the bridge.
DALA: As you were. Now, what about the bolomite and the rest of our earnings?
ZAR: They're exactly where we left them.
DALA: Well, it's time to collect them and leave the region. Set a course before Voyager finds us.
ZAR: You're not in command here.
DALA: I just spent the last twenty four hours in Voyager's brig. I have no intention of going back.
MOBAR: I'm picking up lifesigns on the Delta Flyer.
DALA: That can't be.
ZAR: I was right. You brought them here.
DALA: Don't be ridiculous. Whoever it is must've stowed away.
MOBAR: They're hailing.
DALA: On screen.
PARIS [on viewscreen]: This is Tom Paris of the Starship Voyager. Prepare to be boarded.
MOBAR: He's charging weapons.
DALA: Evasive manoeuvres.
(They shoot at the Flyer and go to warp. Later, at a planet.)
DALA: Let's get everything on board as quickly as we can.
MOBAR: How many transport enhancers do you recommend, Captain?
DALA: Do I have to think of everything?
ZAR: We'll need at least ten if we're going to beam all that bolomite through the geostrata.
DALA: Maybe we should take twelve.
ZAR: We?
DALA: Is there a problem?
ZAR: In six years I've never known you to dirty your hands with menial labour.
DALA: Well, there's a first time for everything.
ZAR: You don't trust us.
DALA: Who knows what the two of you planned while I was in Voyager's Brig?
MOBAR: As Chief of Security, I would never
ZAR: It's all right. We'll all go together.
DALA: After you.

[Cavern]

DALA: The next populated sector is thirteen days from here. When we arrive, we'll trade the Delta Flyer for a new ship. Voyager will never find us. Are all the transport enhancers in place?
ZAR: That's the last of them. We can go now. If that's acceptable to you, Captain.
DALA: I'm afraid there's been a change of plans.
(Dala puts a real Voyager comm. badge on.)
DALA: I've found the stolen items, Captain. You can lock onto my coordinates.
ZAR: I told you she couldn't be trusted.
MOBAR: How could you bring yourself to deceive your fellow officers?
DALA: Voyager, I repeat, I am in position.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Can you get a lock?
SEVEN: Negative. The geostratum is too dense.
JANEWAY: Keep trying. Tuvok.
DALA [OC]: I'm outnumbered. Captain, I need assistance.

[Cavern]

DALA: Voyager, now would be an excellent time to initiate transport.
ZAR: You're not transporting anything.
(Zar tries to draw his weapon, and gets shot first. Mobar's phaser beam goes straight through Dala.)
MOBAR: Captain?
(Dala runs into a side tunnel.)
DALA: Voyager, please respond.
(A figure approaches.)
DALA: You're a sight for sore eyes.
MOBAR: Commander Tuvok?
DALA: The one and only.
MOBAR: Logic would indicate that neither of us has the advantage.
TUVOK: Your logic is flawed.
(Tuvok blinds Mobar with his flashlight, then stuns him. He turns to Zar.)
TUVOK: Stay where you are.
ZAR: What did they promise you for betraying us?
DALA: I believe you've mistaken me for someone else.
(She adjusts the mobile emitter.)
ZAR: Where's Dala?
EMH: I'm afraid she's indisposed at the moment.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(Wigless Dala is lying on the biobed.)
PARIS: I wouldn't get up too fast if I were you, Captain. It's going to take another few minutes for the ambazine to wear off.

Captain's log, stardate 53849.2. The stolen property has been returned to the Telsian miners, as well as vessels from seven different worlds. I'm hoping that the reputation of the real Federation will survive the events of the last several days.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Round and round they go. Follow the terra nut if you can, but remember, the hand is sharper than your visual acuity.
EMH: I thought we'd already disproved that theory.
NEELIX: You tell me.
EMH: The terra nut is firmly entrenched up your right sleeve.
NEELIX: Sorry.
EMH: That's impossible.
PARIS: The old hand-off.
(Paris reaches behind the EMH's ear and produces the nut.)
NEELIX: Ooh.
EMH: That's cheating!
NEELIX: We've still got it.


S6 E22
Muse
Stardate: 53896
Original Airdate: 26 April 2000

[Open air theatre]
Lit by torches, a Greek Chorus is declaiming their part of the play for their rapt audience.)
CHORUS: Captain's log, stardate 53896. B'Elanna Torres has requested permission to take the Delta Flyer and search for dilithium. Shining Voyager, far from home, far from the gleaming cities of Earth.
KELIS: Headstrong B'Elanna Torres, and young Harry Kim, speed away from Voyager on the Delta Flyer in search of their treasures.
(The principals hold masks in front of their faces that represent the characters. Yes, the Torres one does have a ridged forehead.)
JERO: I've trimmed the sails but the sea is rough. Maybe we should return.
LAYNA: I know what I'm doing.
CHORUS: A wave as high as a mountain struck the Delta Flyer.
LAYNA: Get into the escape pod.
JERO: We die together.
LAYNA: No one is going to die. Go.
CHORUS: Young Harry Kim left her side and B'Elanna Torres was thrown against the rocks, the rocks of our very shore.
KELIS: Which is where I, Kelis the poet, found her. Broken, dying. She told me her story, and now I've told you.
(Everyone waits with bated breath for one man to applaud. When he does, they join in enthusiastically.)
AUTARCH: An excellent conceit, that you discovered her yourself.
KELIS: Thank you.
AUTARCH: Well, now that B'Elanna Torres has come to our shore, what will happen? Does Captain Janeway come searching for her, or does she give her up for lost?
KELIS: Who can say?
AUTARCH: Well, I would hope that you can. I want to see more of these Voyager Eternals.
KELIS: Inspiration can't be forced.
AUTARCH: One week.
KELIS: Or three weeks. Maybe two. One week. The story will continue. Have you noticed how thin my performers have gotten?
AUTARCH: Let them eat this.
(He throws Kelis a jewel that was hanging around his consort's neck.)

[Backstage]

KELIS: Ladies and gentlemen, our patron salutes you.
JERO: Finally!
KELIS: We're doing another Voyager play. As soon as I can write it.
LAYNA: Shall we celebrate, the two of us?
KELIS: I have very little time. Celebrating will have to wait.

[Delta Flyer - night]

(The Flyer has crashed on a mountainside. Candles illuminate the inside. Torres is in the pilot's seat and her hands are tied. Kelis reaches forward with his knife to cut her bonds, and she hits him.)
TORRES: Who are you?
KELIS: Kelis, Kelis the poet. Your servant.
TORRES: My servant? All right. Let me go.
KELIS: I can't.
TORRES: Why not?
KELIS: You'll fly from me, the way inspiration always does.
TORRES: You're trying to kill me.
(There are cuts on her forearm.)
KELIS: I'm releasing the heat from your veins.
TORRES: What are you talking about?
KELIS: You've been in a fever since I found you. Bleeding is the best way to treat it.
TORRES: Oh, I can see I'm in good hands.
KELIS: Something tells me you have your doubts.
TORRES: There's a medkit over there. A box, made out of metal. There's a small cylinder inside. Bring it here. Give it to me.
(Kelis does. She turns it on.)
TORRES: Don't be afraid, it won't hurt you. Here. Pass it over where you cut me.
(The dermal regenerator heals the cuts.)
KELIS: You're an Eternal. I suppose such things are to be expected.
TORRES: What other things do you expect from an Eternal?
KELIS: The power to make the ground open up and the sky to fall. All the strange events sung by the ancient poets. Fortunately for me, no poet has ever sung about your clan. I'm the first.
TORRES: My clan?
KELIS: The Eternals on Voyager. Shining Voyager, far from home.
TORRES: What do you know about that?
TORRES [OC]: Delta Flyer log, stardate 53918. Harry and I are continuing toward the fourth planet. Sensors have picked up natural dilithium deposits on nearly every land mass.
(Fast forward.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged. Has your warp core been damaged?
TORRES [OC]: Yes. We're running on thrusters. Can you track our position?
TORRES: How long have I been here?
KELIS: Eight days. I was walking through these mountains. I saw a light burn across the sky and I heard a terrible sound. When I arrived, I found you. I treated your wounds.
TORRES: And you tied me to this chair.
KELIS: When a gift falls from the heavens, only a fool would let her go. You've already given me one play. The story told by those voices. I pieced them together, tried to fill in the gaps.
TORRES: You made a play out of our logs?
KELIS: The Away Mission of B'Elanna Torres. My patron was impressed.
TORRES: He has great taste. Now take that knife of yours and cut me free.
KELIS: That would be unwise.
TORRES: Why?
KELIS: My patron is intrigued by the Voyager Eternals. He wants another play. To compose that, I need more details.
TORRES: And you expect to get them from me?
KELIS: I did save your life.
TORRES: I need to get back to Voyager.
KELIS: I need another play.
TORRES: What exactly do you want to know?
KELIS: Everything.
TORRES: It's not possible. We Eternals have our rules. We can't just give everything away.
KELIS: How did you get lost?
TORRES: Cut me free and I'll tell you.
KELIS: You won't leave me?
TORRES: Cut me free.
(Kelis cuts the ropes. Torres picks up a phaser.)
TORRES: You're the one who's leaving.
(She fires the phaser at a tree branch, vaporising it.)
TORRES: Don't come back.

[Delta Flyer - day]

TORRES: Computer, bring the subspace transmitter online.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
TORRES: Why not?
COMPUTER: Insufficient power.
(She goes to another console, but)
TORRES: Great. Now there's no power.
KELIS: Are you hungry?
TORRES: I told you not to come back.
KELIS: You haven't eaten in days. We have to support each other, we poets.
(Torres takes the proffered berries.)
TORRES: I'm an engineer. I fix things.
KELIS: From the looks of it, you're not doing so well.
TORRES: Are you a poet or a critic?
KELIS: Tell me about Earth.
TORRES: I have to sing for my supper, huh?
KELIS: We all do, in one way or another. Earth.
(He offers her his bag of food.)
TORRES: It's a, an island. A beautiful island, blue and green.
KELIS: And Voyager, a great ship?
TORRES: In a long line of great ships.
KELIS: How did Voyager get lost?
TORRES: The Caretaker.
KELIS: An Eternal?
TORRES: Yes, you could say that. He caused a storm, which blew us off course.
KELIS: Tom Paris. Are you in love with him?
TORRES: Supper is over. Come with me.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(She sticks a portable power cell onto a panel.)
TORRES: This is where we put all the names and dates when our heads won't hold any more.
KELIS: A memory.
TORRES: Exactly. Tell me, have you ever seen this before?
(She calls up an image of a crystalline structure.)
KELIS: Winter's tears.
TORRES: Can you get me some?
KELIS: This is dilithium, isn't it? What you were looking for?
TORRES: Where can I find it?
KELIS: The only deposit I know of is on the hunting grounds of my patron. He'd execute me for trespassing. And you, well, he'd love to capture an Eternal.
TORRES: Maybe I'm more powerful than he is.
KELIS: Perhaps, but if he caught you he'd force you to fight against his enemies. They're constantly at each other's throats. Bickering over territory, raiding each other's land, starting wars whenever they can be guaranteed of good weather. And we suffer the consequences. You don't want to get involved with them.
TORRES: Which is why you're going to get the dilithium.
KELIS: I told you, I'd be executed if I'm caught.
TORRES: The dilithium. Or I don't say another word about Shining Voyager, far from home.
(A thunderstorm breaks overhead.)
KELIS: Did you?
TORRES: Don't get caught.

[Delta Flyer - evening]

(It is still raining. Kelis returns.)
TORRES: Well?
(He hands her his bag, and she takes out a large chunk of crystal.)
TORRES: Beautiful. I've got an idea for your next play.

[Open Air Theatre]

KELIS: I've been visited by inspiration herself. How does this sound? The Rescue of B'Elanna Torres. Right here, in one week.
CHORUS 2: One week?
KELIS: Let's get to work.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Dismissed.
PARIS: That's it?
EMH: Mister Paris, try to stay calm.
PARIS: No, that's not going to happen. Isn't there anything else we can do?
JANEWAY: Not until something shows up on sensors.
PARIS: I'll take a shuttle out myself. I'll run a planet by planet search.
SEVEN: An inefficient plan.
CHAKOTAY: And too dangerous. You could be hit by the same spatial eddies that sent the Flyer off course.
JANEWAY: We need to concentrate our efforts from here, Tom. All right? Dismissed.

[Open Air Theatre]

(The company are reading their new lines.)
CHORUS 1: Steady-armed Paris, bound by a sleep that brings no rest.
CHORUS 2:The door opens. The shadow of a woman falls on the helmsman. His eyes open.
JERO: Seven of Nine, did you find B'Elanna Torres?
LAYNA: I'm sorry to disappoint you.
KELIS: Closer. Closer!
JERO: Unpleasant news delivered by the most pleasing of messengers.
(Jero sits up to kiss Layna.)
KELIS: No, no, no, no. Seven of Nine is a Borg, the scourge of the Eternals. You're portraying her like a shy bride on her wedding night Once more.
JERO: Seven of Nine, did you find B'Elanna Torres?
LAYNA: I am sorry to disappoint you.

[Delta Flyer - night]

(Torres is mending the power grid, ready for the crystal.)
KELIS: I can't blame my performers. These Eternals on Voyager are difficult to understand.
TORRES: Will you stop walking around? You're going to break something.
KELIS: This Tuvok, for example. He's not like anybody I've ever met. No emotions? How is that possible?
TORRES: It just is.
KELIS: It worked?
TORRES: It worked.
(She puts the new crystal into a holder.)
TORRES: Okay, Computer, bring subspace transmitter online.
(Explosion.)
KELIS: What happened?
TORRES: I don't know. The transmitter must have been weakened in the crash. It couldn't take the energy surge.
KELIS: These Vulcans.
TORRES: Enough! What kind of metallurgic technology do you people have? Alloys. Which ones can you make? Steel? Bronze?
KELIS: Bronze.
TORRES: Bronze, all right. I need a plate of metal this big, as thin as it can be, three parts tin to five parts bronze. One side coated with gold.
KELIS: Gold is expensive. I can't afford it.
TORRES: Then you're going into debt.
KELIS: Then tell me about the Vulcans.
TORRES: Get me the plate, and then I'll tell you.
KELIS: Everyone's asleep. I'll do it in the morning. The Vulcans?

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Maybe I've miscounted but, I don't think you've slept in ten days?
TUVOK: Your count is accurate.
NEELIX: Don't you think you should go to bed?
TUVOK: As a Vulcan, I can function without sleep for more than two weeks.
NEELIX: But there's a point of diminishing returns, when your mind starts to play tricks on you.
TUVOK: My mind, Mister Neelix, does not play tricks.
NEELIX: The ship is lonely without them, isn't it?
TUVOK: If you would allow me to continue my sensor analysis, I might be able to locate them.
NEELIX: If there's anything else you need. A stronger tea, perhaps.

[Open Air Theatre]

JERO: When a friend is lost, the mind is split in half, Divided between memory of the past and fear of the future. Harry Kim, Ensign. Only a boy when fate took you from the arms of blue green Earth. B'Elanna Torres, half Klingon, half Human. I am honoured to call you
KELIS: What are you doing? Is that a tear?
JERO: Yes.
KELIS: Logical Tuvok doesn't cry. That's why they call him Logical.
JERO: Everybody cries.
KELIS: The land of Vulcan has no laughter, and it has no tears. It is a very quiet place. Calm, just like Tuvok.
JERO: I can't believe that.
KELIS: You don't have to, just don't cry.
JERO: The audience won't believe it either. They'll either think Tuvok is an unfeeling monster, or that I am a bad performer.
KELIS: They'll realise that beneath your unfeeling exterior is a heart that's breaking, silently, and in more pain than any of us can possibly understand, because that's what it is to be Vulcan. Try it again.
CHORUS 3: Kelis!
KELIS: What's wrong?
CHORUS 3: Our patron has been insulted by his enemy to the north. The armouries are open.
KELIS: Has a battlefield been chosen?
CHORUS 3: Not yet.
KELIS: Then we have a chance.

[Delta Flyer]

KELIS: I need your help.
TORRES: I've given you enough help. Where's that piece of metal?
(Kelis hands it over.)
TORRES: Not bad.
KELIS: My patron's been angered by the leader of a neighbouring state. He'll want to take revenge. It could lead to war.
TORRES: We Eternals aren't supposed to take sides.
KELIS: I'm not asking you to fight. I need a way to change his mind.
TORRES: I don't have that kind of magical power.
KELIS: Yes, you do. I believe the right kind of play can turn the mind from violent thoughts. The perfect play might even stop a war.
TORRES: I can't fix the transmitter with this. There's too many impurities. It'll never carry a plasma charge.
KELIS: If the fighting starts, scouting parties will start moving through these mountains. You'll be discovered. But my play, it could stop it from happening. You have to help me.
TORRES: There's nothing I can do.
KELIS: Then come with me. I'll show you what I've done so far. It's our only chance.

[Open Air Theatre]

KELIS: She's a fellow poet from across the Eastern Sea, an expert on the Voyager Eternals. She's devoted her life to them. She's here to help.
(Layna walks away.)

[Backstage]

KELIS: The Rescue of B'Elanna Torres. We begin with Harry Kim reaching Voyager in the escape pod. He tells Captain Janeway that B'Elanna Torres is lost. We continue to the point where they discover a piece of the Delta Flyer. After that
TORRES: It's simple. They search for B'Elanna Torres. B'Elanna Torres is found.
KELIS: Or not found.
TORRES: Or not found. The end. It sounds pretty straightforward to me.
KELIS: That's exactly the problem. Where is the mistaken identity, the discovery, the sudden reversal? Mistaken identity, a character who is someone else. Discovery, the moment when that identity is revealed. Reversal, a situation that turns from good to bad in a blink of an eye.
CHORUS 1: Find the truth of your story and you won't need all those tricks. I don't know how things are done across the Eastern Sea, but here poets have become lazy. They rely on manipulation to move their audience. It wasn't always that way. Welcome.
TORRES: Thank you.
KELIS: The truth of my story. It's an old-fashioned idea. Today, audiences want excitement, passion. Let me show you what I've done with Captain Janeway and Commander Chakotay. Let's make a good impression on our visitor.

[Open Air Theatre]

TANIS: Chakotay, why must I be denied what every other female officer on this ship can have?
JERO: Captain?
TANIS: The privilege of your touch.
(They kiss.)

[Ready room]

(Door bell.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
(Chakotay enters with a PADD.)
JANEWAY: If that was good news, you'd be smiling.
CHAKOTAY: I was just contacted by an alien transport vessel. They picked up the Delta Flyer's distress call.
TORRES [OC]: The primary controls are offline. I've ordered Harry to eject. I still have thrusters. I'm setting a course for an L class planet. I'll try to maintain contact.
CHAKOTAY: They couldn't get a fix on her position. That was ten days ago.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna ordered Harry into an escape pod. What's the longest he could survive?
CHAKOTAY: Less than ten days.
JANEWAY: An L class planet.
CHAKOTAY: I've already narrowed the search parameters.
JANEWAY: If B'Elanna made it there, it's possible Harry did too. Good night, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.

[Open Air Theatre - night]

KELIS: We'll have a final rehearsal in the morning.
JERO: The last Tuvok scene doesn't make sense to me, and we still don't have an ending.
KELIS: I've got the rest of the night to work on it. Maybe you can get some sleep.
(Jero follows the rest of the company.)
KELIS: What did you think?
TORRES: Captain Janeway kissing Commander Chakotay? Tom Paris kissing Seven of Nine? I don't see the point.
KELIS: Anger is like fire. Love can be the rain that extinguishes it. My patron is filled with hatred for his rival, so our play should be filled with love.
TORRES: You can't change somebody's way of life with a few lines of dialogue.
KELIS: Yes, you can. It's been done before. Do you know what this place used to be a hundred years ago? A temple, and this was the altar stone. Every year a victim would be sacrificed on it in honour of winter. And then one year, nobody remembers exactly when or why, a play took the place of the ritual, and no one had to die here again. Why can't my play take the place of a war?
TORRES: Well, you're going to have to do a lot better than Harry Kim kissing the Delaney sisters.
KELIS: Why?
TORRES: Because when you think that you are surrounded by enemies, when you're up against the Borg, or, or Species 8472, the last thing on your mind is romance.
KELIS: You're an Eternal. You have to help me.
TORRES: I'm sorry, Kelis.
KELIS: The Borg. Tell me more about them.
TORRES: They're soldiers, part of a vast army. They all think the same thoughts, and they travel on ships that look like hives.
KELIS: Like insect colonies.
TORRES: They even have a queen.
KELIS: That sounds terrifying. Captain Janeway hasn't been able to destroy them
TORRES: She is a Starfleet officer, trained to avoid violence whenever possible. She would make peace with the Borg if she could.
KELIS: This is what I need. An enemy, someone to stand in the way of Voyager finding B'Elanna Torres. Captain Janeway, driven by vengeance, must seek out the Queen of the Borg. The audience thinks she plans to destroy them all, but
TORRES: Go on.
KELIS: The Sudden Reversal. Captain Janeway, holding her spear at the queen's throat, throws her weapon aside and she argues passionately to put an end to their conflict in words no one will fail to understand.
TORRES: Including your patron? It's much better than all that kissing.
KELIS: Stay and help me. I still need an ending.
TORRES: You'll figure something out.
KELIS: B'Elanna Torres dies tragically.
TORRES: You wouldn't dare.

[Delta Flyer - night]

LAYNA: I followed you here expecting to find a love nest. It's quite a nest. You're no poet from across the sea. You're an Eternal. Maybe even B'Elanna Torres herself.
TORRES: Don't be ridiculous.
LAYNA: You know all he thinks about is you?
TORRES: We're collaborators, that's all.
LAYNA: If you come to the performance tomorrow night, I'll expose you to the Autarch. Just leave us alone. Fix your ship and go, please.
(Layna runs out, crying.)
KIM: Friend of yours?
(Kim looks in through the shattered front window.)
TORRES: Harry?
KIM: Give me a hand.
TORRES: Oh. How?
KIM: I ran into some turbulence in the escape pod, decided to turn around and follow your ion trail. Landed about two hundred kilometres from here.
TORRES: You walked?
KIM: At night. I tracked your position with a tricorder and tried to stay hidden during the day. I've got some emergency rations left, a phaser, and the escape pod's transmitter, which I didn't have power left to run, but
TORRES: Harry Kim saves the day. Just the ending I was looking for.

[Open Air Theatre]

(Kelis is pacing.)
KELIS: The final moment, the last scene, more important than anything that's gone before. But what is it? Where is she?
LAYNA: Your collaborator's probably halfway across the Eastern Sea by now.
KELIS: She'll be here.
CHORUS 3: You said we'd have an ending by mid-morning. We won't have time to learn it.
KELIS: It'll come to me. Don't worry.

[Delta Flyer]

KIM: Want to give it a try?
TORRES: Why not? The thirty eighth time might be the charm.
(The console comes alive.)
KIM: It's working.
COMPUTER: The subspace transmitter is online.
KIM: Why don't you do the honours?
TORRES: Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer.

[Backstage]

JERO: Our patron has arrived. He's not in a very good mood.
KELIS: He will be.
(Kelis is still writing.)
CHORUS 3: Not if this is any indication.
CHORUS 2: Kelis, this is no way to end a play.
CHORUS 1: It doesn't make sense.
KELIS: It'll have to. Go, go. 
CHORUS 1 [OC]: Who are the enemies of Voyager? The Borg.
CHORUS 2 [OC]: Species 8472.
(Two young men are sitting making copies of the play. Kelis speaks to one of them.)
KELIS: You know where the ridge ends just below the peak? Run there as fast as you can. You'll find a vessel wrecked against the rocks. Go inside and give this to our friend. Don't be frightened. Go.

[Bridge]

(Tuvok is in the Captain's chair, snoring.)
PARIS: Tuvok. Tuvok!
TUVOK: As you were. Bridge to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TUVOK: Request permission to be relieved.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Understood. I'll be right there.
TUVOK: We're picking up a subspace transmission. Starfleet frequency.
PARIS: It's a little rough. Hang on.
TORRES [OC]: Delta Flyer. Harry and I are all right. We're on an L class planet. Propulsion is down.
TUVOK: Origin?
PARIS: Five point two light years, F type star, looks like the fourth planet.
TUVOK: Lay in a course. Maximum warp.

[Open Air Theatre]

TANIS: Seven of Nine.
LAYNA: Captain.
TANIS: The Delta Flyer has been found in pieces, on a rocky shore.
LAYNA: And B'Elanna Torres?
TANIS: No sign of her. Seven of Nine, you are my eyes and my ears. If anyone can find her, it is you.
LAYNA: (to audience) Her eyes and her ears. And the viper in her nest. I, Seven of Nine, have no intention of finding B'Elanna Torres. I, Seven of Nine, am Queen of the Borg. Surprised? No one will be more surprised than Janeway when I take my revenge on Voyager. Say nothing or you, too, will be assimilated. (to Janeway) Captain, I will comply. (exits)
TANIS: My enemies are everywhere without and within. Seven of Nine is Queen of the Borg. Surprised? So was I. Tell her nothing, or I will lose my advantage, and my ship as well.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS [OC]: Are you okay?
TORRES: Yes.
KIM: We're fine.
PARIS [OC]: Good to hear it. We'll see you soon.
(The copyist enters.)
TORRES: Don't be afraid.
(He hands over the message and runs.)
KIM: What is it?
TORRES: Without inspiration, B'Elanna Torres will perish. He's threatening to kill off B'Elanna as the climax to his play.
KIM: Let him.
TORRES: That means that he still can't figure out the ending.
KIM: Who cares?
TORRES: I do.
KIM: You're serious?
TORRES: Harry, have you ever inspired anybody?
KIM: That's kind of a strange question.
TORRES: It's been a strange couple of weeks. He needs me, or he's the one who's going to die on that stage.
KIM: What are you talking about?
COMPUTER: The transporter is online.
TORRES: Tell the Captain I'll be a little late.
KIM: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Wait for my signal.
(She beams herself away.)

[Open Air Theatre]

(Janeway has Seven at the end of her spear.)
LAYNA: My death is irrelevant. You will never see the gleaming cities of Earth. You will be assimilated.
TANIS: And if I let you live?
LAYNA: Also irrelevant.
TANIS: You don't believe that. (Janeway throws down the spear.)
TANIS: The battle is over. Go home.
LAYNA: How foolish of you to let me go, free to attack you again.
TANIS: And again and again, until all your drones and all my crew are destroyed. Until everything we value is gone, and there is nothing left but our hatred.

[Backstage]

JERO: This final scene will ruin everything that we've done out there. We'll have to improvise.
KELIS: It's too late.
TORRES: No, it's not.
KELIS: I knew you'd come.
LAYNA: And I told you not to.
TORRES: Wait! Let's go.

[Open Air Theatre]

CHORUS: Finally, Voyager has reached our shores.
TORRES: And not a moment too soon. Kelis the poet must say goodbye as B'Elanna Torres returns to the Eternals in a dazzling blaze of light.
CHORUS 3: On a far-away, snow-covered peak.
TORRES: No, right here before your eyes.
LAYNA: Wait! She's not from across the Eastern Sea. She's an Eternal. I'm telling you she's B'Elanna Torres. The real B'Elanna Torres! I saw her ship.
CHORUS 1: The lead actress, in a fit of jealousy, brands her rival an Eternal. Our patron rises to his feet to stop the play.
AUTARCH: Nicely done. I almost believed you. Continue.
KELIS: Stay.
TORRES: Voyager needs me.
KELIS: So do I.
TORRES: No, you don't. You have all that you need right here.
(Torres hands him her mask.)
KELIS: I'll be inspired every time I think of you.
TORRES: One to beam, to ascend to the heavens.
(Torres is beamed away.)
CHORUS 1: And so ends the rescue of B'Elanna Torres. Half Klingon B'Elanna Torres. Half human B'Elanna Torres, Chief Engineer.
KELIS: These stories will continue for as long as we have the breath to tell them. And as long as our patrons remain wise and compassionate. And Voyager will continue on her journey to the gleaming cities of Earth, where peace reigns and hatred has no home.


S6 E23
Fury
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 3 May 2000

[Ready room]
(Janeway is looking out of a window when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: You wished to see me.
JANEWAY: We've known each other for how long?
TUVOK: Approximately twenty years.
JANEWAY: We've served on three starships together. I was present at your daughter's Kohlinar. I consider you one of my closest friends.
TUVOK: And I regard you with the same esteem.
JANEWAY: I've always been honest with you, but you've been keeping something from me.
TUVOK: I don't know what you mean.
JANEWAY: Don't you? It took exhaustive research, sifting through teraquads of data, separating fact from rumour, but eventually I arrived at the truth.
TUVOK: Captain?
(She activates the replicator, and turns around holding a blue-iced cake with a single lit candle.)
JANEWAY: Happy birthday.
TUVOK: Thank you.
JANEWAY: So, it's not long before you hit the big three digits, huh?
TUVOK: Indeed. Have you informed anyone else of your discovery?
JANEWAY: Don't worry, Tuvok, my lips are sealed. Well? You're supposed to blow out the candle.
TUVOK: That is not a Vulcan custom.
JANEWAY: Humour me.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Well?  
(Tuvok blows out the candle.)
TUVOK: It was a fire hazard.
(He puts the cake down.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We're receiving a distress call. A small vessel on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Lifesigns?
KIM: One. It's Ocampan.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
(A very old yet familiar woman appears on the viewscreen.)
JANEWAY: Kes?
KES [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway, I need your help. Will you please give me permission to come aboard?
JANEWAY: Of course. What's happened?
KES [on viewscreen]: Please, let me come aboard.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Prepare the docking port. Tell the Doctor to stand by.
TUVOK: Her ship is accelerating. It's on a collision course.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kes. Cut your engines. You're coming in too fast.
PARIS: Five seconds till impact.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on a tractor beam. Evasive manoeuvres.
(Whumph!)
KIM: Hull breach on deck nine.
JANEWAY: Emergency force fields.
KIM: Captain, a transporter was activated just before impact. She's beamed aboard.
(As Kes walks along a corridor, havoc is wreaked behind her.)
KIM: I'm reading bulkhead ruptures. Deck eleven, section seventeen, eighteen, nineteen.
CHAKOTAY: Cause?
KIM: Unknown.
TUVOK: I've located Kes. She's moving through those sections. She's giving off high levels of neurogenic energy.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kes. Kes, respond.
KIM: Hull breach, section twenty.
JANEWAY: Forcefields. Security to deck eleven.
KIM: Forcefields are not holding.
TUVOK: She's approaching main Engineering.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Intruder alert.

[Corridor]

AYALA: Stop where you are.
(Ayala shots Kes with his phaser rifle. Kes staggers a little then pushes the two security guards down a side corridor with a flick of her head. Then she causes the bulkheads to blow out between herself and them.) 

[Engineering]

TORRES: Kes?
SEVEN: State your intentions.
(Kes knocks them aside with a thought and heads for the warp core.)
TORRES: Evacuate Engineering.
(Kes ducks under the railing and puts her hands onto the core.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Warp power is fluctuating.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Torres to bridge. Kes is in direct contact with the warp core.

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: She's drawing power from it somehow.
JANEWAY: Shut it down. (As Torres works a panel, Kes zaps her with warp core energy before glowing brightly and vanishing.)
PARIS: Warp power is returning to normal.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, report.
SEVEN [OC]: Lieutenant Torres is dead. Kes has vanished.

[Engineering - 2371]

(Kes reappears, and morphs into her younger self, with short skirt and short hair, but no comm. badge.)
TORRES: Send Mulchaey, he's in deflector control. We'll need more power to junction twelve J, and tell Harry I want to talk to him about building a new energy grid. Lost?
KES: No, just looking. Captain Janeway suggested that I get more familiar with the ship.
TORRES: Well, if you have any questions, let me know.
KES: Thanks.
TORRES: We're about to run a diagnostic on the warp core assembly. You can watch if you want.
KES: Thanks, but I really should be getting back to Sickbay.

[Corridor - 2371]

KES: Computer, has long has Voyager been in the Delta Quadrant?
COMPUTER: Fifty six days, seventeen hours.

[Sickbay - 2371]

(Kes picks up a hypospray from a tray. The EMH comes out of his office and she hides it behind her back.)
EMH: Back so soon? I thought you went to the Airponics bay to collect herbs.
KES: I forgot something. 
EMH: Ah. Pyong Ko.
KES: Excuse me?
EMH: You encouraged me to choose a name, remember? Pyong Ko was a twenty first century surgeon who discovered the genetic sequence for inhibiting cancer cells. It heralded a new chapter in Earth's medical history.
KES: That's a perfect name, Doctor.
EMH: Then again, I'm also considering Schweitzer, Jarvik, Pasteur. There are so many options, each with its own merits.
KES: Why don't you give it some more thought? You don't have to decide right away.
EMH: Of course, it's not that I require one for reasons of vanity. I'm just a hologram after all. But if I had a name, other than Doctor or Hey you, it might encourage the crew to treat me with a little more respect. Kes?
(She has already left.)

[Airponics bay - 2371]

(This timeline's own Kes is picking berries. She hears the doors open and turns to see them close.)
YOUNG KES: Hello? Neelix?
(Kes creeps up behind and sedates her before taking the comm. badge.)

[Mess hall - 2371]

PARIS: Neelix, if you want to put your own stamp on it, maybe you should give it your own name, like the Greasy Neelix or the Double Talaxian with cheese.
NEELIX: It has a nice ring to it. Thank you, Lieutenant, I'll keep that in mind. Sweeting, What'll it be? The usual?
KES: I'm not hungry. I thought that I'd bring Captain Janeway some coffee.
NEELIX: That's very thoughtful. I'm looking forward to tonight.
KES: Actually, I have a lot of work to do in Sickbay.
NEELIX: But I already reserved the holodeck. I thought we could take a moonlit stroll through the marshlands of Oshionian Prime.
KES: Another time. I promise.
NEELIX: Something wrong?
KES: Bad morning.
NEELIX: Anything I can do?
KES: I'll be fine.
NEELIX: I'm not having a great day, either. Nobody seems to like today's menu. I tried blaming it on a replicator malfunction, but no one believed me. Wait, I, I think I see something. Neelix to Security, Kes' frown is losing its structural integrity. Red alert, I'm detecting a smile. That's my Kes.
KES: The coffee?
(Kes takes the thermos and cup, and leaves.)

[Ready room - 2371]

(Although Janeway has regained the Bun of Steel hairdo, Chakotay's hair is not salt and pepper like it used to be.)
CHAKOTAY: That last attack nearly cost us our impulse drives. Fortunately, B'Elanna found a way to reroute power from the deflector.
JANEWAY: A good choice for Chief Engineer, if I do say so myself.
CHAKOTAY: Getting to know your enemy.
JANEWAY: I feel like I already do. Remember the old story? Man goes to Risa, where he meets a beautiful woman who invites him over for an evening of passion.
CHAKOTAY: He wakes up in the morning, feeling wonderful, until he discovers he's missing a kidney.
JANEWAY: Every cadet about to go on his first shore leave hears that cautionary tale. Doesn't seem so outrageous anymore, does it?
CHAKOTAY: No, but the Vidiians are more than just your garden variety monsters. I've been studying their culture. They were a lot like us before the Phage.
JANEWAY: Do I detect a note of sympathy?
CHAKOTAY: Makes you wonder what we'd do under the same circumstances.
JANEWAY: Come in. (Kes enters with the coffee.)
JANEWAY: Oh, you read my mind.
(Chakotay leaves. Kes sees the file on the desk computer.)
KES: Vidiians?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so. We've picked up two more ships on long range sensors. I've gone to full tactical alert. We're taking every precaution.
KES: I'm sure you'll get us through it safely.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the vote of confidence. Tuvok thinks he's found a way to penetrate their shields. The next time they attack us, it won't be so easy.
KES: That's good to hear.
TUVOK [OC]: Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way.
(Kes spills some coffee.)
KES: Oops. I'm so clumsy, I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Don't worry about it. This desk has seen its share of coffee spills, believe me.
(Janeway leaves. Kes uses her computer.)

[Bridge - 2371]

TUVOK: Ensign Wildman has an intriguing proposal.
WILDMAN: We've been analysing the Vidiian bio-readings from the last attack. Their immune systems have been compromised by the Phage. We could synthesise a neural agent that would incapacitate them without affecting us.
JANEWAY: Might come in handy if we're ever boarded.
WILDMAN: Exactly.
(Tuvok watches Kes leave the ready room. Their eyes meet for a few seconds before Kes goes into the turbolift.)
JANEWAY: Work with the Doctor. When you've got something, find a way to deploy it through the environmental systems.
WILDMAN: Aye, Captain.

[Briefing room - 2371]

TUVOK: The ships we detected earlier have disappeared from our sensors.
KIM: Maybe we outran them.
TORRES: They wouldn't give up that easily.
EMH [on monitor]: Why would they? Voyager's the only organ bank within half a parsec.
CHAKOTAY: We fought off their first attacks. Now they seem content to show up on sensors just long enough for us to change course. It's like we're being herded somewhere.
PARIS: If we maintain our present course we're going to enter a region filled with subspace vacuoles.
TORRES: We'd have to drop to impulse to get through.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like a good place for an ambush.
TORRES: The Maquis used to lure the Cardassians into the Badlands. Those Galor class cruisers had nowhere to run.
JANEWAY: Neither will we, unless. Tom, how dense are those vacuoles?
PARIS: They cover about seventy percent of the region.
JANEWAY: Excuse me, Doctor.
(Janeway replaces the EMH with a map of the upcoming area.)
JANEWAY: Tom, what's the first thing they teach you about manoeuvring at warp?
PARIS: Faster than light, no left or right. When possible, maintain a linear trajectory. Course corrections could fracture the hull.
JANEWAY: Exactly. We'd have to drop to impulse every time we made a course change but, what if we let Voyager do the driving?
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: We could pre-programme every kilometre. That way we'd only spend a second or two at impulse every time the computer executed a turn.
PARIS: Auto-navigation the entire way?
JANEWAY: No offence, but the neural gel packs can calculate vectors a little faster than you can.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: We'd need a more accurate scan of the region. If we even graze one of those vacuoles
KIM: We could send a shuttle ahead.
TUVOK: The Delta Flyer. Its sensors are more advanced.
JANEWAY: The Delta what?
TUVOK: Forgive me. I must have been thinking of another starship.
JANEWAY: Prepare a shuttle. I want all of Voyager's systems operating at peak efficiency by the time Tom gets back. If we're going to pull this off, there's no margin for error. Dismissed.

[Shuttlebay 2371]

(Inside a shuttle in bay 5.)
KES: Computer, display an image of the Ocampan homeworld. Plot a course from Voyager's current position.
PARIS: Homesick?
KES: Lieutenant!
PARIS: Tom. It's okay, a lot of people on board feel the same way.
KES: I spent my entire life trying to get away from Ocampa. Why would I want to go back?
PARIS: Because it's home. Home for me means a penal colony. Out here, I get to fly a state of the art ship, and there's no admirals in sight.
KES: What are you doing?
PARIS: Getting ready for a scouting mission.
(He sees the computer plot Kes' requested course on Tactical Projection 128.)
PARIS: You planning on going somewhere?
KES: Er, no, of course not. I was just studying the helm configurations.
PARIS: I didn't know you could pilot a shuttle.
KES: I can't, but I'd like to learn.
PARIS: Well, then, why not learn from the best? I could start you off in the holodeck, in an old class One. It's the kind of shuttle my father used to take me up in.
KES: That would be very nice, Lieutenant. Tom.

[Outside turbolift - 2371]

(The turbolift doors open, and Naomi steps out.)
TUVOK: Identify yourself.
NAOMI: It's me, Tuvok. Naomi Wildman.
(He follows her to -)

[Cargo Bay two - 2371]

(Tuvok sees Seven and the children in their alcoves)
CAREY: May I help you, sir? Lieutenant, is something wrong?
(The alcoves and their occupants have vanished.)

[Kes' quarters - 2371]

(Kes picks up a PADD with an active file, and activates it.)
NEELIX [OC]: Hello, Sweeting. I took the liberty of preparing one of your favourite meals. It's under replicator programme Neelix One. Call me if you'd like some company. Miss you.
(She throws the PADD across the room and pushes the meal off the table.)
KES: Computer, end music. Open an encrypted channel. Direct the signal to the following coordinates.
(Kes types 208.80 102.8 128.59 into her desk computer.)
COMPUTER: Channel open.
KES: My name is Kes. I'm aboard the Starship Voyager. Respond. I know you're receiving this transmission, and I also know that your attempt to capture this ship will fail. If you want to harvest Voyager's crew, I suggest you answer me now.
VIIDIAN [on monitor]: Explain.
KES: Captain Janeway is aware of your ambush. She's found a way to evade your vessels, but I can help you.
VIIDIAN [on monitor]: I'm listening.
KES: I can send you tactical data on their shields, weapons. Everything you need to take this ship.
VIIDIAN [on monitor]: This is a deception.
KES: Do you want this crew or not?
VIIDIAN: In return?
KES: Safe passage to Ocampa for myself and one other.
VIIDIAN [on monitor]: Why would you sentence your own crew to death?
KES: They're not my crew. They abandoned me a long time ago.

[Airponics bay - 2371]

(Kes opens the drawer at the bottom of an airponics module where she has hidden her younger self. She scans her with a medical tricorder, then strokes her face and closes the drawer.)
KES: Computer, access Voyager's tactical database.
COMPUTER: Command authorisation required.
(Kes puts her hand on the monitor.)
COMPUTER: Access granted.

[Ready room - 2371]

JANEWAY: Naomi Wildman?
TUVOK: She appeared to be half Ktarian.
JANEWAY: Ensign Wildman's husband is Ktarian. I met him once on Deep Space Nine.
TUVOK: There's more. I followed her to Cargo Bay two, where I saw a woman and two children, all with cybernetic implants.
JANEWAY: Borg?
TUVOK: I can't explain it, Captain. I've had hallucinations before, but only while in a state of deep meditation. These were specific and they evoked a sense of anticipation.
JANEWAY: It almost sounds like you're describing a premonition.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: I didn't think Vulcans had premonitions.
TUVOK: They don't. That's what concerns me.
JANEWAY: Computer, maintain a continuous proximity scan of Lieutenant Tuvok. Ten metre radius, all sensor parameters. In case you have any more visions.
TUVOK: A logical plan.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're approaching the vacuoles.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge - 2371]

CHAKOTAY: Last chance to take the long way around.
JANEWAY: It does feel like we're sneaking through a graveyard at midnight. Any sign of the Vidiians?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet, but it's a safe bet they're in there.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Trajectory's laid in. Our trip will take three hours, twelve minutes, eleven seconds with two hundred and sixteen course changes.
JANEWAY: Well, let's get started.
PARIS: Engaging at warp eight. Sit back and enjoy the ride.
(Voyager shakes.)
KIM: One of the vacuoles shifted position. The computer's adjusting our vector.
PARIS: Dropping to impulse, two point three degree turn starboard, jumping to warp six.
CHAKOTAY: One down, two hundred and fifteen to go.
JANEWAY: I'll be in Sickbay.
PARIS: Dropping to impulse. New heading, oh thirty one mark two.
(Janeway leaves.)
TUVOK: There's a ship approaching. It's on a collision course.
PARIS: I'm not reading any ship.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Permission to be relieved, sir. I am not well.
CHAKOTAY: Of course.

[Sickbay - 2371]

(Wildman and the EMH are working on molecular scan 1027 when Janeway enters.)
EMH: The molecular structures appear to be stable. Good.
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: We've devised a neural agent that should inhibit the Vidiian's motor functions without causing any permanent damage.
JANEWAY: Good. I don't want to add to their health problems. I just want to keep them from adding to ours.
WILDMAN: I'll get to work.
(Wildman leaves them.)
JANEWAY: Doctor, when was the last time you examined Ensign Wildman?
EMH: I performed her annual physical six weeks ago.
JANEWAY: Did you find anything unusual?
EMH: She's in perfect health.
JANEWAY: This may seem like a strange question, but I need to know if she's pregnant.
EMH: I'm not at liberty to disclose that information. Doctor-patient confidentiality.
JANEWAY: What about Captain's orders?
EMH: Sorry, medical protocol supersede your authority in these matters.
JANEWAY: The security of this ship could be at stake.
EMH: She planned on telling you herself.
JANEWAY: Boy or girl?
EMH: Female. Half Ktarian, as a matter of fact, which should nearly double the infant's gestation period. How did you know?
(Janeway leaves.)
EMH: And they say I'm rude.

[Corridor - 2371]

(Tuvok hears voices)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're receiving a distress call.
JANEWAY [OC]: Life signs?
KIM [OC]: It's Ocampan.
JANEWAY [OC]: Kes?
KES [OC]: Let me come on board.
TUVOK [OC]: Her ship is accelerating. It's on a collision course.
KIM [OC]: Hull breach on deck nine.
JANEWAY [OC]: Emergency forcefields.
TUVOK [OC]: She's approaching main Engineering.
SEVEN [OC]: State your intentions.
KES [OC]: Let me come on board.
TUVOK [OC]: It's on a collision course.
JANEWAY [OC]: Forcefields.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're receiving a distress call.
JANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Engineering. Intruder alert.

[Engineering - 2371]

AYALA: [OC]: Stop where you are.
SEVEN [OC]: State your intentions.
PARIS [OC]: Warp power is fluctuating.
TORRES [OC]: She's drawing power from it somehow.
TORRES: Problem?
(Tuvok looks at the warp core and sees the moment when Old Kes kills Torres. He grabs his head and staggers)
TORRES: Hey.
(Tuvok collapses and begins to convulse.)
TORRES: Torres to Sickbay, medical emergency.

[Sickbay - 2371]

EMH: Twenty milligrams lectrazine. Cortical stimulator. We'll start at twenty millijoules.
KES: Ready.
EMH: Now. He's gone into synaptic shock. I don't understand.
(Voyager continues on its computer controlled course.)

[Doctor's office - 2371]

JANEWAY: Can I speak with him?
EMH: I think it's best to keep him sedated for now.
JANEWAY: When did this begin?
EMH: Early this afternoon, in Engineering.
JANEWAY: Time. I need the exact time.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres called Sickbay at fourteen hundred twenty two hours.
JANEWAY: Computer, display proximity scan of Lieutenant Tuvok at fourteen hundred twenty two hours. Oh.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: Tachyons.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
JANEWAY: There was a surge of tachyon particles just before Tuvok collapsed.
EMH: That could have triggered this, but where did they come from?
JANEWAY: They're normally caused by temporal distortions.
EMH: Time travel?
JANEWAY: Let me know if his condition changes.

[Sickbay - 2371]

JANEWAY: Kes, you have telepathic abilities. Have you experienced anything unusual during the past couple of days? Hallucinations, premonitions?
KES: No, nothing.
JANEWAY: If you do, you'll let me know?
KES: Of course, Captain.
(Janeway leaves.)

[Doctor's office - 2371]
 
KES: We're low on neuro-stabilisers. I'll go replicate some more.
EMH: Hurry back.

[Airponics bay - 2371]

VIDIIAN [on monitor]: Where's the tactical data you promised us?
KES: I'm downloading it now. I'll transmit it to you once you've arrived.
VIDIIAN [on monitor]: I need it now.
KES: Janeway's already suspicious. If I transmit it now, I'll be discovered.
VIDIIAN [on monitor]: That's your problem.
KES: Apparently it's yours, too.

[Bridge - 2371]

JANEWAY: Gentlemen, scan for tachyon particles deck by deck.
KIM: Tachyons?
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Looking for something specific?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure.
(Whumph!)
CHAKOTAY: Report.
PARIS: We're under attack. A Vidiian ship is closing on our position.
JANEWAY: Battlestations.
KIM: We've lost warp drive and weapons.
CHAKOTAY: They're cutting through our shields. Remodulate.
KIM: I'm trying. They keep matching the frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: We've still got impulse.
PARIS: They've taken out navigation. I can't plot a course.
(Kes is transmitting data. The Vidiian ship is directly above Voyager. It lowers three grapples.)
CHAKOTAY: They're cutting an access route through the hull. Evacuate deck three and seal it off.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Are you ready with that neural agent?
EMH [OC]: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Stand by to release it on deck three.

[Sickbay - 2371]

EMH: Acknowledged. Fifty millilitres should suffice.
WILDMAN: Doctor!
EMH: Doctor to the bridge. Environmental controls aren't responding.

[Bridge - 2371]

JANEWAY: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: We've been locked out of that system.
JANEWAY: What do you mean, locked out?
KIM: The command relays have been fused.
JANEWAY: They know where to find us, they know our shield frequencies, which systems to target.
KIM: We're being boarded.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading an EM fluctuation. It could be a transmission.
JANEWAY: Location?
CHAKOTAY: Airponics bay.
JANEWAY: Who's down there?
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up two bio-readings. The sensors must be malfunctioning. They're both reading as Kes.
JANEWAY: Security to Airponics bay. Shut down control functions to that section. I'm going down there. Something tells me we've got more than one battle on our hands.

[Airponics bay - 2371]

(The transmission is stopped. Kes opens the drawer where her other self is hidden.)
KES: Computer, initiate site-to site transport programme Kes beta six.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Control functions have been disabled.
(Kes wakes her younger self.)
KES: Shush, shush. I'm taking you home.
(Janeway and her escort have a phaser fight with some Vidiians.)

[Bridge - 2371]

KIM: We've got weapons back.
CHAKOTAY: Can you target those hooks?
KIM: Not at this range. We'd breach the upper hull.
PARIS: It's better than being dissected.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse the hull polarity. Maybe we can shake them loose.

[Airponics bay - 2371]

(Kes has her arms full of herself.)
JANEWAY: Now one of you doesn't belong here, and I'm guessing it's you. Tuvok's premonitions were real. You're from the future.
KES: A future I'm about to change.
JANEWAY: You're helping the Vidiians, Kes. Why?
(Kes telekinetically throws Janeway against the bulkhead. She heads for the doors and they open to reveal Federation and Vidiian weapons fire criss-crossing it. Kes retreats and Janeway regains her weapon and her feet.)
JANEWAY: Tell me why you're doing this.
KES: I won't let you hurt her again.
JANEWAY: I haven't done anything to harm her.
(Kes lays her other self on the floor.)
KES: You took her from Ocampa, her home. She's a prisoner on this ship.
JANEWAY: No one's a prisoner here, Kes.
KES: I was a child. You corrupted me with your ideas.
JANEWAY: What ideas?
KES: Exploration, discovery. I believed you.

[Bridge - 2371]

KIM: Hull polarity loosened their hold, but not by much.
CHAKOTAY: It's a start. Reroute the deflector. Have it discharge anti-graviton pulses along the hull. Engage the inertial dampers. Get a controlled pitch going.

[Airponics bay - 2371]

KES: In three years, I'm going to leave Voyager in search of higher things because you encouraged me to do it. You encouraged me to develop my mental abilities. I wasn't ready for what I found. I couldn't control it. It scared me. I had nowhere to go. I thought of returning home to Ocampa, but I'd changed too much. I knew they'd be frightened of me. I knew they wouldn't accept me, but they'll accept her.
JANEWAY: You don't have to destroy this ship, Kes. We can help you.
KES: No, I trusted you.
JANEWAY: Kes.
KES: No!
(Kes blasts Janeway again, then falls over as -)

[Bridge - 2371]

KIM: We're breaking free.
PARIS: They're trying to lock on us with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse thrusters. Full power.
PARIS: That could tear the hull apart.
CHAKOTAY: Then tear it apart!
(The last grapple takes bits of hull with it.)
CHAKOTAY: Photon torpedoes, full spread. Ready, fire!
(Three torpedoes hit the Vidiian ship.)

[Airponics bay - 2371]

(Janeway and Kes get to their feet. Kes advances and Janeway tries to stun her. Kes staggers then returns the favour. Janeway adjusts her weapon's energy setting.)
JANEWAY: It's set to kill, Kes.
(Kes steps forward and Janeway fires the phaser. Kes falls to the deck and returns to her old appearance.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Status?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: The Vidiians are in retreat. Everything all right down there?
JANEWAY: For now.

[Engineering - 2371]

TUVOK: She was here in my last premonition. She appeared older. Her face was tired.
JANEWAY: What was she doing?
TUVOK: She had her hands on the casing, as if she was drawing energy from it.
JANEWAY: The tachyons are concentrated here. It's possible she needed the core to travel back in time.
TUVOK: If that's true, then she'll need it again.
JANEWAY: And we don't know when that'll be. We have to be ready.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: Kes has regained consciousness.

[Sickbay - 2371]

TUVOK: What do you remember?
YOUNG KES: I was in Airponics, and then I felt dizzy, and then I was watching myself.
EMH: Yourself?
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate EMH. What I'm about to tell you stays between the three of us. Understood?
YOUNG KES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Something terrible has happened. Or more precisely, will happen. We're going to need your help to prevent it from happening again.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: It took exhaustive research, sifting through teraquads of data, separating fact from rumour, but eventually I arrived at the truth.
TUVOK: Captain?
(Janeway turns around with the replicated cake and one lit candle.)
JANEWAY: Happy birthday.
TUVOK: Thank you.
JANEWAY: So, it's not long before you hit the big three digits, huh?
TUVOK: Indeed. Have you informed anyone else of your discovery?
JANEWAY: Don't worry, Tuvok, my lips are sealed. Well, you're supposed to blow out the candle.
TUVOK: That is not a Vulcan custom.
JANEWAY: Humour me.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way. Well?
(Tuvok blows out his candle.)
TUVOK: It was a fire hazard.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We're receiving a distress call. A small vessel on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Life signs?
KIM: One. It's Ocampan.
(Janeway turns and looks at Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: I'd almost forgotten.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Raise shields.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Bridge. Begin emergency evacuation of deck eleven. Repeat.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: All hands evacuate deck eleven.
TORRES: You heard her, get moving. Now!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Open a channel. Kes.
KES [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway, I need your help. Will you please give me permission to come aboard?
JANEWAY: Of course. What's happened?
KES [on viewscreen]: Please, let me come aboard.
(Transmission ends.)
TUVOK: Her ship is accelerating. It's on a collision course.
PARIS: Five seconds to impact.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on a tractor beam. Evasive manoeuvres.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: Shields are holding. Her ship is intact.
KIM: Captain, a transporter was activated just before impact. She's beamed aboard. I'm reading bulkhead ruptures on deck eleven, section seventeen, eighteen, nineteen.
CHAKOTAY: How did you know?
JANEWAY: Ready? (to Chakotay) Shut down the warp core. You have the bridge.

[Engineering]

HOLO-KES: Remember me? The innocent child you're here to save? You blame Captain Janeway, but the choice was yours. You made the decision to leave Ocampa, and you made the decision to leave Voyager. If you're watching me now, you've come back to take revenge on the people who cared about you. That's not who you are, and that's not who I am. Don't do this. Find another way home. Captain Janeway will help you if you give her a chance. Try to remember who you were. Try to remember me.
(The hologram vanishes, and Janeway and Tuvok enter.)
JANEWAY: Don't you remember? You made that holo-recording because you didn't want this to happen again. Three years ago, you travelled back in time. Kes, you wanted to take that woman with you and you were willing to hand the rest of us over to the Vidiians to do it. It didn't work. You forced me to kill you, Kes. If you go back now, it'll all happen again. Just before this terrible thing happened, you told me you had nowhere to go. That's not true. Stay here with us.
KES: I can't. I don't belong here. I need to be with my own people.
JANEWAY: You told me you had the ability to get home, but you were afraid the Ocampans wouldn't accept you. Why?
KES: I remember.
JANEWAY: What? What do you remember?
KES: The holo-recording. I remember making it. You asked me to help you, to help myself. You wanted me to remember who I was. These years were so filled with confusion and anger. I buried the memory. I'd almost forgotten.
JANEWAY: Does it really matter which Kes goes home?

[Transporter room]

NEELIX: A few snacks for the journey. You do still like leola root?
KES: Thank you. What?
NEELIX: Just looking.
KES: See anyone you know?
NEELIX: Only you.
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Kes.
KES: Captain.
(Tuvok beams Kes away. Neelix leaves.)
TUVOK: What should we tell the others?
JANEWAY: A friend got lost. We helped her find her way.


S6 E24
Life Line
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 10 May 2000

[Shuttlecraft]
BARCLAY: Shuttlecraft Dawkins to Jupiter Station.
WOMAN [OC]: Go ahead.
BARCLAY: This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay requesting permission to dock.
WOMAN [OC]: Granted.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

ZIMMERMAN [OC]: What? What is it?
BARCLAY [OC]: It's me, sir, Reg Barclay.
ZIMMERMAN [OC]: Come in.
(An iguana is lounging on a console.)
BARCLAY: Doctor Z? How are you?
(We are shown a grey haired version of our EMH.)
ZIMMERMAN: Nice of you to finally drop by.
BARCLAY: I've been extremely busy. The, er, Pathfinder project.
ZIMMERMAN: You're still searching for that ship? What's it called, Pioneer?
BARCLAY: Er, Voyager.
ZIMMERMAN: Voyager. Any luck?
BARCLAY: Actually, we're on the verge of a breakthrough. A communications link.
ZIMMERMAN: Congratulations. The first transgalactic phone call.
BARCLAY: Is there any word from Starfleet Medical?
ZIMMERMAN: Doctors. I've been scanned and probed a hundred times and they still can't tell me what's wrong.
BARCLAY: I'm sure it's only a matter of time.
ZIMMERMAN: I'm dying, Reginald. And there's nothing anybody can do about it.

[Astrometrics lab]

(A signal leaves Earth, gets boosted by the MIDAS array and arrives at -)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
SEVEN: We're receiving a transmission from Starfleet.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Route it here.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: It's not a comm. link, Captain. It appears to be

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: A compressed datastream, badly degraded.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: They say good things come in small packages. This is all the data they could send us, until next month.
TORRES: Next month?
CHAKOTAY: They're using a cyclic pulsar to amplify signals from the MIDAS array, but the cycle only peaks every thirty two days.
JANEWAY: So once a month we'll be able to receive a short burst of information. And we'll have about seventeen hours to respond.
CHAKOTAY: So far we've gotten tactical updates, letters from home, and news about the Alpha Quadrant.
KIM: I don't suppose they found us a shortcut home.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look that way.
JANEWAY: We don't have much time to prepare a response, and we'll have to keep it short, but I want to give everyone an opportunity to send something. Even if it's only a brief note.
(This is directed at Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: Inform the crew.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Barclay, the Pathfinder Project. They didn't give up on us. So when you write those letters, you might want to thank them.

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: Mail call.
EMH: A letter? For me? Oh, it's from Lieutenant Barclay.
NEELIX: Bad news?
EMH: Lewis Zimmerman. Apparently, he's seriously ill.
NEELIX: Zimmerman?
EMH: He's the father of modern holography. He invented the matrix that made my programme possible.
NEELIX: Oh. What's wrong with him?
EMH: He's suffering from acute subcellular degradation. The doctors here are having trouble finding the cause, much less a treatment. I've included his medical files. As you'll see, the prognosis isn't good. They say he's only got a few months. I'm sorry I don't have better news to report, but I thought you'd want to know.
NEELIX: How well did you know him?
EMH: I've never met the man.
NEELIX: If you'd like to send a response, the captain will need it by nineteen hundred hours.

[Doctor's office]

(The EMH is reviewing Patient Profile 1027, Zimmerman, Lewis.)
SEVEN: Here's the information you requested.
EMH: Thank you.
SEVEN: You're reviewing his medical data.
EMH: I thought I could send Starfleet a second opinion. It's a long shot, but maybe my experiences in the Delta Quadrant could provide some insights. I was hoping these Borg regeneration techniques might help them develop a treatment for his condition.
SEVEN: You bear a striking resemblance.
EMH: He used his own physical parameters as a model for my matrix. Can't say I blame him. A doctor needs to inspire confidence in his patients. Compassionate eyes and a strong chin can go a long way.

[Ready room]

EMH: I believe I can help him, Captain.
JANEWAY: How?
EMH: You remember the Vidiians? The early stages of the Phage are very similar to Doctor Zimmerman's disease. I believe I can adapt a variety of Borg regeneration techniques to arrest the cell damage, maybe even reverse it.
JANEWAY: Make sure to pass along your findings. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Actually, I was hoping to administer the treatment myself.
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting?
EMH: I'd like you to send my programme back to the Alpha Quadrant. None of the Doctors at Starfleet are familiar with these techniques. It would take them months to fully understand them, much less put them to use.
JANEWAY: Even if we could send you, you're needed here.
EMH: Mister Paris can take over Sickbay. He's more than capable. We've done this once before. There weren't any problems.
JANEWAY: Three years ago, and we used alien technology.
EMH: I've spoken to Seven of Nine. She believes we can compress my programme.
JANEWAY: There's limited space in the datastream. If we send you, there won't be room for anything else.
EMH: I realise I'd be asking the crew to make a sacrifice on my behalf, but they can wait another month. Doctor Zimmerman might not have that time.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry he's not doing well. Unusual man. I met him once at a conference. He managed to offend just about everyone there, but he was certainly brilliant. I'm sure Starfleet is consulting their best physicians, Doctor.
EMH: They are, but no one's been able to develop a cure. I have. But I can't treat a patient who's thirty thousand light years away.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: This is the first time we're attempting to send a response. We don't know if it will even get through.
EMH: I'm willing to take that risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not.
EMH: He programmed me. Every algorithm, every subroutine. If it weren't for his years of work, I wouldn't be standing here. I owe him something. And frankly, so does this crew. In a way, he's responsible for every life I've saved.
JANEWAY: Lewis Zimmerman designed the template for Starfleet's EMH. You're one of thousands based on that technology. It's not as though he's your father.
EMH: From your perspective. From mine, he's the closest thing I've got. If I don't try to help him now, I may never get the chance.
JANEWAY: You'll have to find a way to convince Tom to take those duty shifts.
EMH: He's already agreed.
JANEWAY: Tell him Captain Jane said hello. That's what he kept calling me at the conference. I think he did it just to get on my nerves.
EMH: I've heard he can be difficult.
JANEWAY: I certainly hope you get a chance to find out.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is in his office humming La Donna e Mobile. When he tries to sing, nothing comes out. He goes out to speak to Seven.)
EMH: My vocal processor.
SEVEN: It's not a malfunction. I've removed your singing algorithms. They'll be stored in a memory buffer until you return.
EMH: Why?
SEVEN: Your programme's too large for the datastream. I have to extract all non-essential subroutines.
EMH: They're essential to me. They're part of who I am.
SEVEN: Are you planning on performing opera during your visit?
EMH: No.
SEVEN: Will you be reciting poetry?
EMH: Doubtful.
SEVEN: Hoverball? Holophotography?
EMH: I may want to take a few snapshots to document my trip.
SEVEN: Sexual activities?
EMH: I get the point. How much has to be left behind?
SEVEN: Twelve megaquads.
EMH: I suppose you could get rid of my athletic abilities and my grand master chess programme.
SEVEN: That leaves three megaquads. Your painting skills?
EMH: Oh, if you must. Try to leave a few of my enhancements intact. I don't want to look like every other EMH on the block. I think Doctor Zimmerman will be very interested to see what I've learned. He probably never imagined what one of his own creations could accomplish. I could spark a whole new field in holographic research.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Bon voyage.
EMH: See you in a month.
KIM: Don't get lost.
(Kim removes the mobile emitter.)

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

(A woman waves her hand over a salad.)
HALEY: (to fly) If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times. Stay off the food.
ZIMMERMAN [OC]: Haley? Haley, what's the status of my lunch?
HALEY: It's coming, Doctor!
ZIMMERMAN [OC]: As if things weren't bad enough, now I'm dying of starvation.
(Doorbell.)
HALEY: Come in!
BARCLAY: Haley.
HALEY: Mister Barclay. Is something wrong?
BARCLAY: No, no, just the opposite. Is he in?
HALEY: He's not taking visitors today.
BARCLAY: Tell him this is important.
HALEY: He's in a prickly mood.
BARCLAY: I've brought something with me that might cheer him up. Computer, is the download complete?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.

[Zimmerman's lab]

HALEY: Lunch.
ZIMMERMAN: That's not pork chops.
HALEY: It's salad.
ZIMMERMAN: I didn't ask for salad.
HALEY: It's healthy.
ZIMMERMAN: I'm dying. A piece of meat isn't going to kill me any quicker. Give the plants to Leonard. He's the one trying to watch his weight.
(That will be the iguana.)
HALEY: Lieutenant Barclay is here to see you.
ZIMMERMAN: I told you I wasn't
HALEY: He says it's urgent.
ZIMMERMAN: Can't it wait until I'm dead? All right, send him in. Three minutes. He's got three minutes.
HALEY: Be civil to him, Lewis. He's worried about you. We all are.
(Haley leaves, Barclay enters.)
BARCLAY: I found a friend waiting for me at home.
ZIMMERMAN: You don't have any friends.
BARCLAY: Well, I guess, er, you could say he's a friend of yours.
(Barclay activates the hologram.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
ZIMMERMAN: An EMH Mark One? I'm not in the mood for nostalgia, Reginald.
BARCLAY: But this is the Mark One from Voyager.
EMH: I was compressed into a datastream and transmitted from the Delta Quadrant.
ZIMMERMAN: Congratulations. I recommend a tour of Jupiter's third moon. I hear the lava flows are lovely this time of year.
EMH: I'm not here for a vacation. I'm here to treat your illness.
ZIMMERMAN: You brought a Mark One thirty thousand light years to treat me? I was wrong about you, Reginald. You do have a sense of humour.
EMH: Care to let me in on the joke?
ZIMMERMAN: You didn't tell him?
EMH: Tell me what?
BARCLAY: Well, I, er
ZIMMERMAN: You're obsolete, extinct. Yesterday's news.
EMH: My programme was retired?
ZIMMERMAN: Retired? Not at all. The EMH Mark One was reconfigured to scrub plasma conduits on waste transfer barges. I've been treated by the Mark Three, the Mark Four, not to mention the finest real doctors in Starfleet. None of them could help me.
BARCLAY: He has been running almost continuously for six years. He has seen more things than most doctors can even imagine.
EMH: I also have an exceptionally high tolerance for difficult patients.
ZIMMERMAN: I didn't programme you for sarcasm.
EMH: You'll find I'm full of surprises.
ZIMMERMAN: Show the good Doctor to the plasma generator. I understand there's quite a build-up of residue.
EMH: If we had more time, I'd enjoy trading barbs with you. But right now, there's a more pressing concern. Your life. I'm working on a treatment based on a disease I encountered in the Delta Quadrant, but I'll need to run a complete analysis. However, if it's impossible for you to believe that a lowly Mark One could have anything useful to offer, I'll be happy to pack my bags and go explore those sulphur mines.
ZIMMERMAN: Go ahead, scan away.
BARCLAY: I'll be outside.
(Barclay leaves.)
EMH: What were your initial symptoms?
ZIMMERMAN: Radical hair loss. Fatigue, nausea, joint inflammation.
EMH: Have you travelled outside the solar system recently?
ZIMMERMAN: What's that got to do with anything?
EMH: Just answer the question.
ZIMMERMAN: I haven't left Jupiter station in over four years.
EMH: To your knowledge, have you been exposed to theta radiation?
ZIMMERMAN: No.
EMH: Neutron flux?
ZIMMERMAN: Never.
EMH: Have you had intimate relations with a Bolian?
ZIMMERMAN: These are questions first year medical students would ask.
EMH: I'm just being thorough.
LEONARD: Just being thorough.
EMH: Did that creature just speak?
ZIMMERMAN: His name's Leonard. He's a hologram.
EMH: Computer, deactivate iguana.
ZIMMERMAN: How dare you!
EMH: I'm a Doctor, not a zoo keeper. Has there ever been an epidemic on this station?
ZIMMERMAN: No! Enough questions! Finish your scans and get out of here.
EMH: Doctor.
ZIMMERMAN: I said get out of here.
EMH: I travelled halfway across the galaxy to treat you. The least you could do is show a little gratitude.
ZIMMERMAN: Thank you. Get out of here!
EMH: I may be the only physician who can save your life. You need me.
ZIMMERMAN: Like hell. I brought your matrix into this world and I can take it out.
EMH: I'm no longer a prototype. I have exceeded my original programming. I'm no longer under your control.
ZIMMERMAN: Oh, really? Computer, transfer EMH to the living quarters.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

BARCLAY: How did it go?
(Later, the EMH comes storming out of the lab on his own.)
EMH: Power up the MIDAS array. I'm leaving.
BARCLAY: What, what happened this time?
EMH: I ran a mitochondrial scan. There was something odd about the results, so I spent a full hour analysing them. And what did I discover? He's a Vulcan marsupial. He reconfigured my tricorder! You find that amusing?
BARCLAY: A little. Well, not really.
HALEY: Sounds like you're making progress.
EMH: How so?
HALEY: He only teases people he likes.
EMH: Then he must love me.
BARCLAY: I take it that you, er, still haven't been able to diagnose him.
EMH: On the contrary, the patient appears to be suffering from an acute case of arrogance!
(A fly buzzes)
BARCLAY: Oh, that's Roy.
EMH: Don't tell me. A hologram?.
BARCLAY: It was commissioned by Starfleet Intelligence. An experiment in micro-surveillance. Doctor Z keeps it around as a sort of a pet.
EMH: Undercover insects, talking iguanas. This isn't a research station, it's a three ring Circus. You should charge admission.
BARCLAY: Look. Look, you know that we can't send you back for another two weeks so please, just, just keep trying.
EMH: I can't treat a patient who won't let me near him. He's deranged. What he needs is a counsellor.
(The EMH swats Roy.)
EMH: Finally, I've accomplished something.

[Barclay's quarters]

BARCLAY: I thought you might be able to provide some, er, insight.
TROI [on monitor]: It's not that simple, Reg. Doctor Zimmerman sounds like a very complex individual. I'd need to speak to him in person.
BARCLAY: Then maybe I could get him to agree to a counselling session.
TROI [on monitor]: The Enterprise is in the middle of a mission. We're nearly seven light years from you.
BARCLAY: An important mission?
TROI [on monitor]: They're all important, Reg. I could refer you to Counsellor Jenzo, a colleague of mine on Earth.
BARCLAY: I need the best, Deanna.
TROI [on monitor]: It would be an interesting challenge.
BARCLAY: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.
TROI [on monitor]: Don't thank me yet. I'll still need to clear this with Captain Picard. If he agrees, I might be able to be there by early next week.
BARCLAY: I'll see you then.

[Ready room]

(Doorbell.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Good morning. Problem?
JANEWAY: I haven't decided. I've just listened to a communiqué from Admiral Hayes.
CHAKOTAY: Nice to have friends in high places.
ADMIRAL HAYES [on monitor]: Hello, Captain. I hope this message finds you well. From what I understand, it has not been easy, but I want you to know that a lot of people here are very proud of what you've accomplished. I also want to assure you that we have not given up finding a way to get you home. We've redirected two deep space vessels toward your position. If all goes well, they could rendezvous with you in the next five to six years.
JANEWAY: Computer, advance to time index one twenty one point four.
ADMIRAL HAYES [on monitor]: As we get closer and our conversations become more frequent. When you respond to this message, please let us know of any casualties. I'm sure you've had more than your share. I'm anxious to know the status of your crew, the Maquis, first contacts that you've made, interactions with the Borg. But there'll be time for everything. Our thoughts are with you. Talk to you soon.
CHAKOTAY: What?
JANEWAY: Status of the Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: Do you find that surprising?
JANEWAY: I don't think of you or B'Elanna or the others as Maquis. I think of you as part of my crew.
CHAKOTAY: You may have forgotten, but we haven't. You heard the Admiral. It'll be years before we have to deal with those issues. Let's worry about it then.
JANEWAY: Do you have lunch plans?
CHAKOTAY: Is that an invitation?
JANEWAY: I was hoping you'd help me compose a response.
CHAKOTAY: You're on.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

HALEY: Doctor, your lunch is ready.
(Moans come over the comm.)
HALEY: Are you all right?
ZIMMERMAN [OC]: Fine, Haley, fine. Give me a few minutes.

[Zimmerman's lab]

(Zimmerman is receiving a massage from a Tarlac woman. She continues to knead with her elbow whilst scanning him with a medical tricorder.)
ZIMMERMAN: Ah. Ah. Lower. Ah. Perfect. I needed this. You have no idea what I've had to endure these past few days. Last night I woke up and I found him hovering over my bed with a hypospray. A smattering of photons, that's all he is. What's that? What is that? A tricorder? You were scanning me? Computer, realign Voyager's EMH. You!
EMH: Remain calm. Emotional outbursts will only aggravate your condition.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll tell you what's aggravating my condition. You!
EMH: If you'd let me examine you.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll report you to the medical ethics board.
EMH: Doctor!
ZIMMERMAN: Save it for your hearing.
EMH: If you weren't so stubborn, you'd see I'm only trying to help.
ZIMMERMAN: I don't want your help! Why won't you leave me alone?
EMH: Because, for reasons beyond my comprehension, I care about you.
ZIMMERMAN: You weren't programmed to care. You were programmed to hold a scalpel.
EMH: I told you, I'm not the same EMH you created six years ago.
ZIMMERMAN: Of course. You can sing and dance. I should install you in a Ferengi nightclub.
EMH: The Voyager crew appreciates my attempts to expand my programme.
ZIMMERMAN: This isn't Voyager. It's my lab. And in my lab, you're still just a hologram.
EMH: A hologram you created. A hologram who owes you his existence.
ZIMMERMAN: Is that what's keeping you here? Some twisted sense of obligation? Well, let me assure you, you don't owe me anything.
HALEY [OC]: Doctor?
ZIMMERMAN: Yes, Haley, what is it?
HALEY [OC]: You have a visitor.
(Troi enters.)
TROI: Hello, I'm Deanna Troi. Which one of you is Doctor Zimmerman?
ZIMMERMAN: Deanna Troi. Another one of your tricks?
TROI: Excuse me? Ow!  
(Zimmerman pinches her arm.)
EMH: He thinks you're a hologram.
TROI: I can assure you I'm quite real.
ZIMMERMAN: Oh. Well. The last beautiful woman to walk in here turned out to be him.
EMH: I'll take that as a compliment.
TROI: Did I come at a bad time?
EMH: Your timing couldn't be better. The patient is suffering from acute anxiety, normally associated with terminal illness. It's made him agoraphobic, paranoid and extremely antagonistic.
TROI: I see. Mind if I sit down?
ZIMMERMAN: Please.
(Leonard is watching her closely.)
TROI: Reg tells me you won't let the Doctor help you.
ZIMMERMAN: He's a Mark One. He's obsolete. I'd be safer in the hands of a Klingon field medic.
TROI: I understand he's developed a promising treatment.
ZIMMERMAN: If you're a Borg drone. He's threatening to use some kind of ghoulish assimilation technique. It's not fit for a lab rat.
EMH: You won't even look at my research. From the moment I arrived, you've berated me, treated me like an antique. Well, let me tell you something. Antique or not, I took a huge risk coming here. I had to plead with my Captain, leave my ship without a surgeon.
TROI: Doctor. Imagine that your programme was seriously damaged, and the only person who could repair you was an engineer from, say, a hundred years ago. Would you feel comfortable with that?
EMH: If he were skilled, intelligent, creative.
TROI: Honestly, Doctor? A hundred years ago?
EMH: Well, I suppose it would give me pause.
ZIMMERMAN: Ha.
TROI: Now, put yourself in the Doctor's shoes. Imagine you were asked to treat someone you cared about, say an EMH Mark twelve.
ZIMMERMAN: There is no Mark twelve.
TROI: But if there were, and you wanted to save his programme. He probably wouldn't let you near him. He wouldn't care that you'd won the Daystrom Prize for holography. From his perspective, you'd be out of date. But what if you knew you could save him?
EMH: Thank you, Counsellor, for extending that olive branch. I'm willing to see past our differences, if he is.
ZIMMERMAN: All right. He can start by purging the plasma conduits on deck six.
TROI: Doctor Zimmerman.
ZIMMERMAN: I will not put my life in the hands of a primitive.
EMH: You'd need a phaser drill to get through that thick skull of his.
ZIMMERMAN: Get out!
TROI: Gentlemen!
ZIMMERMAN: Oh, spare us your psychobabble.
TROI: I came here thinking that you were opposite sides of the same coin. Identical, but different. Now I see you're both exactly the same. You're both jerks.
LEONARD: Jerks.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

TROI: I'm starting to think you called the wrong counsellor, Reg.
BARCLAY: You'll figure something out. You always do.
TROI: Things are worse now than when I arrived. Lewis won't come out of his lab and the EMH is hiding in a holodeck.
BARCLAY: He's feeling homesick. I let him use my Voyager simulation and it seems to be cheering him up.
TROI: A hologram fighting to save the life of his creator, who just so happens to be the same man his own personality is based on. I think I'd need a whole team of therapists just to get them in the same room.
HALEY: Mister Barclay said this is your favourite ice cream.
TROI: I hardly deserve it, but thanks. You're a hologram.
HALEY: How do you know?
TROI: I'm an empath. I haven't sensed any emotions from you. When were you first brought online?
HALEY: Nine years ago.
TROI: No offence but, you're more antiquated than the EMH Mark One, and yet Lewis seems to listen to you. Why do you suppose that is? Were you here when the Mark One was created?
HALEY: Yes.
TROI: Any idea why Lewis made it in his own image?
HALEY: Maybe you should ask him.
TROI: I did. He evaded the question. I was hoping you might know.
HALEY: He was extremely proud of the Mark One. He used to dream about hundreds of holograms in every corner of the quadrant saving lives. He put so much of himself into its development. I suppose it only seemed natural that it should look like him, too.
TROI: But the Mark One failed to meet Starfleet's expectations.
HALEY: He was devastated.
BARCLAY: He, he locked himself away in this lab for two years trying to repair the defects. Finally, he just gave up. Started from scratch. A whole new matrix.
TROI: The Mark Two.
BARCLAY: Followed by the Mark Three, and then the Mark Four. He, he was obsessed with perfecting it.
TROI: But none of the later models resembled Lewis.
HALEY: He made that mistake once. He wasn't about to do it again.
TROI: And now, after all this time, a Mark One shows up. It must be like staring in a mirror at a reflection you don't want to remember.

[Zimmerman's lab]

ZIMMERMAN: Computer, resume recording. Last Will and Testament, Doctor Lewis Zimmerman. Let's see. Where were we? Subsection eight, the Trojan Horse project. I hereby bequeath my latest research in holographic infiltration technology to the only engineer I trust to complete the work, Lieutenant Reginald Barclay. Subsection nine, holographic art. I hereby bequeath my entire collection, including the twenty first century masterpiece, Woman in Four Dimensions, to the person who has appreciated it the most. I guess that would be Reg Barclay, too. Subsection ten, Haley. I realise she's only a hologram, but she's been a loyal assistant for many years. I'd like to request that Starfleet keep her programme running for as long as this research facility exists. She's been as real to me as anyone I've ever known. Not that I've known many people. I've created most of my friends.
(He is struck by a stab of pain that takes his breath away.)
ZIMMERMAN: Pause recording. (to Leonard) Don't worry. I'll find a home for you, too.

[Holodeck - Doctor's office]

TROI: So this is Voyager. I like it.
EMH: It's a remarkable facsimile, but Mister Barclay did get a few of the details wrong. For one thing, Neelix doesn't purr.
TROI: I think that may have something to do with Reg's cat. He named it after your friend.
EMH: Neelix would be honoured. If you're here for Doctor Zimmerman's medical files, I've nearly finished updating them. Maybe the next physician will put them to better use. 

[Holodeck - Sickbay]

TROI: Actually, I stopped by to ask you to dinner.
EMH: I'm a hologram, Counsellor. I don't eat.
TROI: I know that, but we'd still enjoy your company.
EMH: We?
TROI: Lieutenant Barclay, Haley, myself, Doctor Zimmerman.
EMH: No, thanks. Unless that man's eating crow, I'm not interested.
TROI: It's the perfect opportunity for us to talk things out in a more casual environment.
EMH: Sorry.
TROI: Just one meal.
EMH: I said no.
(His matrix flickers.)
TROI: Doctor?
EMH: Something's wrong.
TROI: Troi to Lieutenant Barclay.
BARCLAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TROI: There's something wrong with the EMH.
BARCLAY [OC]: Can you be more specific?
EMH: She's a counsellor, Lieutenant, not an engineer.
BARCLAY [OC]: Stand by.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

(The EMH is still flickering.)
EMH: What's happening to me?
BARCLAY: Your programme is destabilising.
EMH: What? Why?
BARCLAY: They sent you thirty thousand light years. I should have expected some problems.
EMH: It's not your fault, Mister Barclay. We just need to find a way to repair the damage.
BARCLAY: You don't understand. Your primary matrix is degrading and there is nothing I can do.

[Zimmerman's lab]

ZIMMERMAN: Good riddance to bad photons.
BARCLAY: He's dying, Lewis.
ZIMMERMAN: He's not dying. His files are just degrading.
TROI: There are people on Voyager who count on him.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll send them a Mark Four. They're more reliable.
BARCLAY: They don't want a Mark Four. They want their friend.
ZIMMERMAN: No EMH was ever designed to be anyone's friend. He's just a hologram.
HALEY: Is that how you feel about me? Just a hologram?
ZIMMERMAN: I will not be ambushed in my own lab.
HALEY: Stardate 53292. My programme malfunctioned and you cancelled a lecture on Vulcan and came all the way home to repair me.
ZIMMERMAN: There's nothing worse than addressing a room full of pointy-eared blowhards. I was looking for an excuse to get away.
HALEY: You came back because you cared about me, just like you care about the Mark One. You just won't admit it. He may not be perfect, but he's still one of your creations and right now he needs his creator. Don't turn your back on him.
(Later, Zimmerman forks some salad into his mouth and presses buttons.)
ZIMMERMAN: Computer, activate Voyager's EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
ZIMMERMAN: You're the emergency.
EMH: Where's Lieutenant Barclay?
ZIMMERMAN: Trust me, you're in far more capable hands.
EMH: You're going to repair my programme?
ZIMMERMAN: Who better?
EMH: Just yesterday you threatened to decompile me.
ZIMMERMAN: That was before your colleagues made me feel guilty.
EMH: You're ill. You're in no condition to perform delicate procedures.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll survive, but you won't if you don't relax and let me finish.
EMH: What are you doing?
ZIMMERMAN: My scans identified a recursive error in your pattern buffer. I'm trying to isolate it.
EMH: Is that a fractal algorithm?
ZIMMERMAN: Very good. I'm using it to realign your matrix.
EMH: Fractal algorithms are notoriously unstable.
ZIMMERMAN: In the hands of a novice. (Beep!) Whoops.
EMH: Whoops? What's whoops?
ZIMMERMAN: Computer, deactivate EMH.
(Later, the EMH is reactivated.)
EMH: I, I can't move!
ZIMMERMAN: I know. I had to take your mobility subroutines offline.
EMH: How long have I been deactivated?
ZIMMERMAN: Seventeen hours. I'm resetting your parameters.
(The EMH goes off and on, and walks over to Zimmerman.)
EMH: You don't look well. You need rest.
ZIMMERMAN: I'm fine. And so are you. Your programme's been stabilised.
EMH: I, I'm going to be okay?
ZIMMERMAN: No, you're going to be better than okay.
EMH: Now what are you doing?
(The EMH disappears and reappears.)
EMH: Welcome to Sickbay. How may I help you today?
ZIMMERMAN: Well, what do you think?
EMH: I think you've altered my greeting protocol.
ZIMMERMAN: That's just the beginning. I've also added new subroutines for compassion, patience, empathy, decorum.
EMH: I don't feel any different.
ZIMMERMAN: Because I haven't installed them yet. I thought you'd like to be awake for the big moment. Reginald was right about you. You have exceeded the sum of your programming. You've accomplished far more than I would have ever predicted. But let's face facts. You never overcame the inherent flaws in your personality subroutines. You're arrogant, irritable. A jerk, as Counsellor Troi would say.
EMH: I believe she was describing you as well.
ZIMMERMAN: Don't change the subject. I may not be able to turn you into a Mark Four, but I can make you a bit more presentable.
EMH: What if I'm happy with the way I am?
ZIMMERMAN: I'm doing you a favour.
EMH: I don't want any favours and I don't want your new subroutines. Why can't you accept me as I am?
ZIMMERMAN: Because you're defective. Emergency Medical Hotheads. Extremely Marginal Housecalls. That's what everyone used to call the Mark Ones until they were bounced out of the Medical Corps. I tried to have them decommissioned, but Starfleet in its infinite wisdom overruled me and reassigned them all to work waste transfer barges. That's where you'd be too, if you hadn't been lost in the Delta Quadrant. Do you know how humiliating it is to have six hundred and seventy five Mark Ones out there, scrubbing plasma conduits, all with my face?
EMH: I'm sure they're doing a fine job.
ZIMMERMAN: What are you doing? I'm not finished with you. (The EMH is scanning him.)
EMH: I'm trying to do my job. And if you give me a chance you'll see that I'm pretty good at it. Frankly, I'd hoped that if we ever met, you'd be proud of me.
ZIMMERMAN: Well, I guess it is comforting to know that at least one of you is still doing what I designed you to do.
EMH: Your intercellular proteins are at a dangerous level. We should begin the procedure. Please, give me a chance to make you proud of me.
ZIMMERMAN: Maybe we could try it, see how it goes.
EMH: See how it goes.
ZIMMERMAN: Just don't expect me to put you in my will.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]

(Barclay is pacing. Troi and Haley are sitting quietly.)
BARCLAY: I, I'm going in.
TROI: Reg.
BARCLAY: They have been in there for thirty two hours.
TROI: Be patient.
(The EMH enters.)
BARCLAY: Well, you, you're not fritzing anymore.
EMH: No thanks to you. Doctor Zimmerman ran a diagnostic on my subtronic relays and he made a very interesting discovery. Apparently, I was the victim of foul play.
BARCLAY: Well, what, what do you mean?
EMH: He found an algorithm designed to disrupt my matrix. You wouldn't know anything about that, would you?
TROI: Well, traditional therapy wasn't getting us anywhere.
EMH: Well, your little scheme worked. Doctor Zimmerman has agreed to the cellular regeneration procedure. He'll require several more treatments, but I'm optimistic he'll make a full recovery.

[Zimmerman's lab]

(The EMH is taking holo-photographs of the lab.)
ZIMMERMAN: Trying to steal my secrets?
EMH: Another one of my hobbies. I thought I'd take home a few memories. You're supposed to be in bed.
ZIMMERMAN: I've got work to do.
EMH: It can wait. Go to bed. Doctor's orders.
ZIMMERMAN: I hope you won't be coming back next month to make sure I'm taking my medicine.
EMH: Don't worry. My captain's not likely to authorise another house call.
ZIMMERMAN: Good. The next time she sends a datastream, you might want to drop me a line, let me know how you're doing.
EMH: If you insist.
(Barclay enters.)
BARCLAY: Ready?
EMH: Would you mind?
(He hands Barclay his holo-camera.)
BARCLAY: Not at all. Smile!


S6 E25
The Haunting of Deck Twelve
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 17 May 2000

[Mess hall]
(Neelix turns down the flames under a pan and goes into the mess hall proper. It is deserted.)
NEELIX: Computer, deactivate mess hall lights.
(He turns to leave, the doors open and he almost bumps into Seven walking in.)
NEELIX: Oh! You scared me.
SEVEN: That wasn't my intention.
NEELIX: No, of course not. I guess I'm just a little jumpy, especially after what happened the last time.
SEVEN: That's why I'm here.
NEELIX: Oh?
SEVEN: We'll be shutting down main power soon. The children's regeneration cycle will be interrupted. They'll require supervision.
NEELIX: Well, I'm happy to help. To tell you the truth, I'd be grateful for the distraction.
SEVEN: The procedure could take several hours.
NEELIX: How much do they know about what's happening?
SEVEN: Nothing. The children have overactive imaginations. I don't want to alarm them unnecessarily.
NEELIX: What if they start asking questions? I can't just lie to them.
SEVEN: You have considerable childcare experience. I'm sure you'll manage.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: That's close enough. Let our momentum carry us in.
PARIS: Cutting engines.
(A nebula is dead ahead.)
PARIS: There's a creepy image. Reminds me of something out of Edgar Allan Poe.
KIM: Looks like a vampire bat. You can make out the wings, even the ears. What do you see, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Two Starfleet officers with juvenile imaginations.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok. Haven't you ever looked up at the clouds and seen an animal?
TUVOK: I will never understand the human need to find imagery in something as innocuous as a cloud.
JANEWAY: Harry, are we ready?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Then let's do it. All hands. initiate shutdown sequence.
(All the lights go out. They turn on emergency lanterns. Crew still walking the corridors use their wrist beacons to see where they are going.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The alcoves turn off, the children awake, then the lights go out.)
NEELIX: Everything's all right. We've just had to shut down main power temporarily. Nothing to be concerned about.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Three, two, one, mark.
(The warp core is deactivated.)

[Bridge]

KIM: All decks report shutdown complete, Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine. We're ready.
SEVEN [OC]: Acknowledged.
(Voyager glides into the purple fog.)

[Cargo Bay two]

ICHEB: Why did they shut down main power?
NEELIX: It's simply a precaution. We've entered a class J nebula and the Captain wants to make sure that we don't attract any, er, residual EM. radiation.
(Neelix puts a lantern on a table.)
ICHEB: Our shields provide sufficient protection against nebula discharge.
NEELIX: Is that so? I'm afraid that gaseous anomalies were never really my specialty. Come on, gather round. I've brought toys and stories and games and I thought that later we might even have a little sing-along.
ICHEB: I should go to Astrometrics. Seven may need my help.
NEELIX: I'm afraid that Astrometrics is shut down, too.
MEZOTI: If we're not analysing the nebula, why did we enter it?
NEELIX: Oh, that is a long and dull story, and not nearly as interesting as Flotter Meets the Invincible Invertebrates.
MEZOTI: Is Voyager in danger?
NEELIX: Mezoti, there's really no need to leap to those kinds of conclusions.
ICHEB: Maybe if you explained what's happening in more detail, we wouldn't have to guess.
MEZOTI: This has something to do with deck twelve, doesn't it?
NEELIX: Well, what makes you say that?
ICHEB: Deck twelve section forty two is off limits to everyone but senior officers with a level six security clearance.
MEZOTI: That's because it's haunted, isn't it?
NEELIX: Who told you that?
MEZOTI: Naomi.
ICHEB: She was just trying to frighten you.
NEELIX: I'll have to have a talk with that girl.
AZAN: Is it true?
REBI: Does a ghost live there?
NEELIX: You're really too old to believe in such silly things.
MEZOTI: If it's not a ghost, what is it?
ICHEB: We deserve an explanation.
NEELIX: I don't think that Seven would be too happy if you all started waking up with nightmares.
AZAN: Tell us.
REBI: Please?
NEELIX: All right. Gather round. But I'm warning you, this is not a tale for the faint of heart.
MEZOTI: We're not faint of heart.
ICHEB: Our cardiopulmonary systems are reinforced.
MEZOTI: So don't leave anything out.
NEELIX: All right. But remember, I warned you. It all began several months ago, before you joined Voyager. We were exploring a dark nebula, just gathering deuterium. We had no idea what was in store for us.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX [OC]: But when the turbulence started getting rough, we should have seen that as an omen.
NEELIX: How goes the particle collecting, Commander?
TUVOK: We've got enough deuterium to power the warp engines for another thousand light years.
NEELIX: Excellent.
TUVOK: Is something wrong?
NEELIX: Now that you mention it, there is something that I feel compelled to share with you in my capacity as morale officer. The crew seem a little on edge.
TUVOK: Oh? They don't appear particularly anxious to me.
NEELIX: They're very good at hiding their fears. Starfleet training. I was wondering how soon we might be leaving this nebula. Knowing could help me assure them.
TUVOK: It's difficult to say. The Bussard Collectors are running at maximum, but it's a slow process. We could be here for several more days.
(Shudder.)
NEELIX: Days?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, are you certain it's not you who is on edge?
NEELIX: You know me too well, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: I can assure you, a J class nebula is no cause for alarm.
NEELIX: I know it's illogical, but staring into this murky cloud for hours on end can be a little unsettling. When I was a child, an immense plasma drift passed through the Talaxian system. The stars and the moons were blotted out for months. From horizon to horizon all you could see was this enormous, menacing cloud. Ever since then I've found it a little disturbing to be in nebulas.
TUVOK: Perhaps the Captain might give you permission to install curtains.
NEELIX: That's an excellent idea. And I have just the right material.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: The nebula's beginning to destabilise.
JANEWAY: Cause.
KIM: I'm not sure. It could have something to do with the nadion emissions being produced by the Bussard Collectors.

[Cargo Bay two]

ICHEB: You're not remembering correctly.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
ICHEB: The Bussard Collectors don't produce nadion emissions.
NEELIX: Well, the technical details don't matter. What's important is that Voyager's presence was destabilising the nebula

[Bridge]

NEELIX [OC]: And the crew wasn't interested in taking any chances.
CHAKOTAY: We've got eighty percent of the deuterium we wanted. Maybe we shouldn't push our luck.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: We're suspending the dilithium intake.
(Oops, a slip of the tongue there from Kate.)
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Tom, take us out.
PARIS: Aye.
NEELIX [OC]: But at that exact moment, in the fraction of a second before Tom could engage the engines, zap! We were hit.

[Cargo Bay two]

MEZOTI: What was it?
AZAN: The ghost?
REBI: Shush. Let him finish.
NEELIX: Whatever it was, it shook the ship hard.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: An EM discharge penetrated the hull. Deck seven, section ten.
KIM: Increasing power to structural integrity.
PARIS: We're clear.
JANEWAY: Damage?
CHAKOTAY: Power outages on three decks. Auxiliary subprocessors are offline. No injuries reported.
JANEWAY: Assign repair teams. Resume course.
NEELIX [OC]: We'd taken some minor damage, but for the most part everything was fine. Or so we thought.
(We are treated to a view of something sparkling attached to the hull.)

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: What none of us knew was that a mysterious stowaway had come aboard Voyager.
MEZOTI: What kind of stowaway?
ICHEB: It was obviously a space-dwelling lifeform.
NEELIX: Yes, but we didn't know that, not at that point.
MEZOTI: Was it non-corporeal?
NEELIX: In a manner of speaking
REBI: Hostile?
NEELIX: Well, I'm getting to that.
AZAN: Species 5973?
NEELIX: Who are they?
ICHEB: The Borg encountered them in galactic cluster eight. They're multi-spectrum particle lifeforms.
NEELIX: No, that's not what this was.
MEZOTI: Maybe it was an inter-phasic species.
NEELIX: We can either debate comparative xenobiology or I can continue with the story. Now it's up to you.
ICHEB: Continue the story.
NEELIX: Somehow I thought you'd say that. Now, where was I? Oh, ah, yes. Life aboard Voyager would have been more or less back to normal if it weren't for a few strange malfunctions.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
(Janeway gets herself a mug of drink from the replicator.)
CHAKOTAY: I've got reports from repair teams. It looks like that EM discharge did more damage than we thought. Transporter room one is out of commission, half the sonic showers are offline, and we temporarily lost artificial gravity on deck five.
JANEWAY: Any injuries?
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Mulchaey bumped his head on the ceiling.
JANEWAY: Ouch. This is terrible. Computer, another cup of coffee, black.
(This time the liquid materialises before the cup does.)
JANEWAY: You can add replicators to your list. We're getting started on the wrong foot today, my friend.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I was talking to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: It's nothing to be embarrassed about. I used to have long conversations with my Maquis ship.
JANEWAY: Really? What did you two talk about?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, I can't tell you that. Captain-starship confidentiality.
JANEWAY: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: If the Doctor heard us he'd probably recommend counselling.
JANEWAY: I won't tell if you won't.
CHAKOTAY: Deal.
JANEWAY: Commander, do you see that?
(A string of glowing objects outside.)
CHAKOTAY: It's a meteorite cluster. I doubt it's anything to worry about.
JANEWAY: I'd tend to agree, if it weren't the same one we passed an hour ago.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Ensign.
(She hands him her coffee mug.)
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Are you conducting a survey of meteoroids, Tom?
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: Check your sensors. We're travelling in circles.
PARIS: Not according to my readings.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, run level four diagnostic on the navigational array.
TUVOK: There is a malfunction in the subprocessors. It appears we're heading back the way we came.
JANEWAY: All stop. Reinitialise your sensors.
PARIS: I'm telling you, we rely too much on twenty fourth century technology, Captain. You give me a window and a sextant and I guarantee I'll get you where you want to go.
TUVOK: We've jumped to warp six.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Don't look at me.
JANEWAY: Shut down the warp engines.
PARIS: I can't.
CHAKOTAY: Manual override.
TUVOK: No response.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
PARIS: I'm reading all stop.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres, respond.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, locate B'Elanna Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in Engineering. Ensign Trumari is on deck four, section thirty. Commander Tuvok is on the bridge.
JANEWAY: Find out what's going on. Harry, pull the speech processors if you have to, but shut that thing off.
COMPUTER: Ensign Vorik is in Engineering, level two.

[Turbolift]

NEELIX [OC]: Meanwhile, Commander Chakotay was headed for Engineering, or so he thought.
(The turbolift doors open and he steps out by the mess hall. He gets back in.)
CHAKOTAY: Engineering.
(The turbolift doesn't move.)
CHAKOTAY: I bet you wouldn't try to pull this on the Captain. Have it your way. I'll walk.
(The doors shut in his face.)
NEELIX [OC]: The turbolift started to fall

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: Faster and faster! Anybody hungry?
MEZOTI: Neelix!
NEELIX: You haven't touched your snacks
MEZOTI: Snacks are irrelevant. Continue the story.
ICHEB: What happened to Commander Chakotay?
NEELIX: The turbolift plunged eleven decks at high speed. The g forces pinned Commander Chakotay to the ceiling. He knew that at any minute he was going to come crashing down to the bottom of the turbolift and there was nothing that he could do about it. But then the descent stabilisers reactivated.

[Engineering]

NEELIX [OC]: The way B'Elanna tells it, Commander Chakotay was not very happy when he showed up in Engineering that morning.
CHAKOTAY: If I didn't know better I'd say this ship is trying to kill me. Do you have any idea what's going on?
TORRES: Well, I've traced the problem to a series of gel packs on deck thirteen. It looks like they were burned out by an EM discharge from the nebula.
CHAKOTAY: And those gel-packs interface with all the affected systems.
TORRES: I'm on my way to repair it right now. Feel like giving me a hand?
CHAKOTAY: Only if we stay out of the turbolifts. I'll tell you about it on the way.

[Corridor]

NEELIX [OC]: While Chakotay and B'Elanna headed for deck thirteen, new problems were cropping up all over the ship.
(Celes removes a wall panel.)
SEVEN: Crewman Celes, step away from the control panel.
CELES: Did I do something wrong?
SEVEN: You caused a power failure in Astrometrics.
CELES: I did? How?
SEVEN: That's what I'm attempting to find out.
CELES: I don't see how I could have done anything.
SEVEN: I've located the problem. It appears you inadvertently overloaded a series of EPS conduits while performing your diagnostic.
CELES: But I haven't even started the diagnostic.
SEVEN: Then what were you doing?
CELES: Nothing. I just got here.
(Seven presses some buttons and the lights flicker.)
CELES: I know that wasn't my fault.

[Deck thirteen]

CHAKOTAY: These gel packs aren't burned out.
TORRES: There's no trace of any EM discharge.
CHAKOTAY: Could it have dissipated this quickly?
TORRES: No, it moved.
CHAKOTAY: Moved?
TORRES: The discharge seems to be travelling through the bio-neural circuitry, jumping from system to system.
CHAKOTAY: Can you isolate it?
TORRES: It's in a series of gel packs that interface with the environmental controls outside Cargo Bay two.
CHAKOTAY: Let's try to get there before it jumps again.

[Cargo Bay two - then]

NEELIX [OC]: By then Seven of Nine was in Cargo Bay two to run diagnostics but, because the comm. system was down they couldn't warn her, and she had no idea that something was in the room with her.
(Blue lightning is creeping across the deck.)

[Cargo Bay two - now]

AZAN: Here?
REBI: In this cargo bay?
MEZOTI: Then what happened?

[Cargo Bay two - then]

NEELIX [OC]: The creature was clinging to the circuits and bulkheads using them to move about the room. It was getting closer and closer.
(The blue lightning climbs into a console, shutting it down, then purple-red gas comes out of wall vents.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge. Bridge, acknowledge.
NEELIX [OC]: But of course, there was no answer.

[Cargo Bay two - now]

ICHEB: Why didn't she remodulate her neural transceiver and send a message that way?
NEELIX: That's an interesting question. You'll have to ask her.
MEZOTI: Stop interrupting.

[Cargo Bay two - then]

NEELIX [OC]: Seven tried to get out but she was trapped.
(Seven manually opens the doors, walks into the corridor and encounters forcefields either side of the entrance to the cargo bay. The area fills with gas and sizzling energy, and she collapses. Her cortical implant sizzles.)

[Cargo Bay two - now]

REBI: What happened to Seven?
MEZOTI: The entity must have infiltrated her cybernetic systems and turned her against the rest of the crew.
NEELIX: It most certainly did not. You're letting your imagination run away with you.
REBI: What happened?
AZAN: Why did the light go out?
NEELIX: It's all right. I just have to replace the power cell. It'll only take a moment. Nothing to be frightened about.
MEZOTI: I'm not frightened, but Azan is.
AZAN: I am not.
NEELIX: There. Sorry, I didn't mean to scare you. Now, where was I? Oh, yes. Seven was trapped by the forcefields, but fortunately for her

[Corridor]

NEELIX [OC]: Help was on the way.
(Torres and Chakotay come out of a Jefferies tube.)
CHAKOTAY: Computer, deactivate this forcefield. We'll have to cut power to the field generators.
TORRES: The computer's not accepting my command codes.
CHAKOTAY: Stand back.
(Chakotay phasers the wall panel.)
TORRES: The forcefield's down.
CHAKOTAY: Let's get her to Sickbay.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX [OC]: Now, most of us were just going about our business oblivious to what was happening, but that was about to change.
(The lights start flickering.)
KIM: Kim to Engineering.
NEELIX: Neelix to the bridge.
KIM: I want everyone to report to their stations until we figure out what's going on.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
NEELIX: Er, Ensign, maybe I should come with you. The captain might need me.
KIM: This is your post. You may be needed here.
NEELIX: Oh, of course. If you need anything, anything at all, you know where to find me.
NEELIX [OC]: So there I was. The only thing I could do was wait, alone.
(The mess hall lights go out.)
NEELIX [OC]: In the dark.

[Bridge]

NEELIX [OC]: Voyager was dead in space. System after system was failing, including the environmental controls. Ensign Paris told me it was hotter than the Tarkanian Desert on the bridge.
PARIS: Don't you ever sweat?
TUVOK: Not unless the temperature reaches three hundred fifty degrees Kelvin, with a humidity factor at approximately
PARIS: Forget I asked.
TUVOK: Very well.
JANEWAY: (sotto) I'll make you a deal, Voyager. The next M class planetoid we find, we'll set down and I'll give you a nice maintenance overhaul. What do you say? Tom, check the conn.
PARIS: I don't know what you did, Captain, but I've got helm control back.
JANEWAY: (sotto) Thanks, my friend.
PARIS: I'm going to try to get thrusters and impulse engines back online.
JANEWAY: Tom, I'm reading an EM surge in your console. Get away from there.
(Paris screams as energy envelops him.)
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Medical emergency. Can we transport him?
TUVOK: Transporters are offline.
JANEWAY: Why am I not surprised. Now what?
COMPUTER: Warning, oxygen depletion in progress.
TUVOK: Breathable air is being sucked out of the bridge.
JANEWAY: Reroute emergency power to environmental controls.
TUVOK: No effect.
JANEWAY: Everyone out of here now.

[Sickbay]

NEELIX [OC]: In Sickbay, the Doctor had his hands full, too.
EMH: You're fortunate. Another few moments and you'd have been asphyxiated. Where do you think you're going?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres needs help with the repairs.
(Janeway and Tuvok help Paris get to a biobed.)
JANEWAY: Doctor.
TORRES: What happened?
EMH: An EM. surge. Seven had a similar experience.
SEVEN: The environmental system converted Cargo Bay two into a micronebula.
CHAKOTAY: When Gibson and McMinn tried to vent the gas from deck seven, they were struck by a discharge, too.
JANEWAY: Are we thinking the same thing?
CHAKOTAY: It could be an intelligence at work here.
TORRES: Some kind of electromagnetic lifeform that's using the environmental controls to make the ship more hospitable for itself.
JANEWAY: And attacking anyone who tries to stop it.
EMH: My matrix is destabilising.
JANEWAY: Transfer his programme to the mobile emitter. Quickly.
COMPUTER: Warning. Power failure.
JANEWAY: Let's get the injured out of here.
NEELIX [OC]: Deck by deck, section by section

[Corridor]

NEELIX [OC]: The crew was losing control of Voyager. People were scattered throughout the ship with no idea what was happening.
(Celes hits Kim in the dark.)
KIM: What did you do that for?
CELES: Ensign, I'm so sorry! I, I thought, I thought you were a Hirogen, or a Borg.
KIM: And what gave you that idea?
CELES: It's dark. Your shadow.
KIM: Trust me, there are no aliens roaming the corridors.
CELES: You mean we haven't been boarded?
KIM: It's just a power failure.
CELES: Isn't that what they sometimes do? Cut the power?
KIM: What who sometimes does?
CELES: Hostile aliens. They might be trying to infiltrate the ship.
KIM: How long has it been since you've run into anyone else?
CELES: I don't know, four or five hours. I, I tried Sickbay, but it was deserted. Decks three and four are empty. I, I was on my way to the bridge. You're the first person I've seen.
KIM: Well, there's no one on the bridge either.
CELES: You see? Then maybe I was right. Maybe the reason we can't find anyone is because they've all been assimilated.
KIM: Slow down. There was an environmental failure on the bridge. That's why it's been evacuated. I don't know what happened in Sickbay, or on decks three and four, but I'm sure there's a perfectly reasonable explanation. Ah ha. No one's been assimilated.
CELES: Then where are they?
KIM: They've probably set up a temporary command post, most likely in Engineering. That's where I'm going.
CELES: Can I come with you?
KIM: Of course.
CELES: Ensign?
KIM: What?
CELES: Do you think we could stop by a weapons locker on the way?

[Mess hall]

NEELIX [OC]: I still had no idea what was going on. I'd been waiting in the mess hall for more than four hours in the dark, cut off from the rest of the crew.
(He hears the doors open and shut.)
NEELIX: Is somebody there? Hello? Hello? Hello?

[Corridor]

(He forces the mess hall doors open.)
NEELIX: Is somebody out there? Tom, if that's you, this isn't funny.
(The turbolift doors are opening and closing rapidly. Then Neelix's beacon illuminates Tuvok in a breathing mask.)
NEELIX: Argh! Stay away!
TUVOK: Calm yourself, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: You really shouldn't sneak up on people like that. I could have shot you.
TUVOK: Your restraint is commendable.
NEELIX: Is there a problem with the air supply?
TUVOK: An alien lifeform has seized control of Voyager's primary systems. It's flooded numerous sections with poisonous gas.
NEELIX: Are you saying that this alien lifeform is trying to kill us?
TUVOK: Its intentions aren't clear. However, we should evacuate.
NEELIX: Where to?
TUVOK: The Captain has established a secure command post in Engineering.

[Cargo Bay two]

MEZOTI: Were you scared?
NEELIX: Well, considering that Engineering was eight decks down and the only way to get there was to crawl through pitch-black Jefferies tubes, it's fair to say that I was never more frightened in my life.
ICHEB: You shouldn't have allowed yourself to be afraid.
NEELIX: Is that so.
ICHEB: Fear distracts people from accomplishing their goals.
NEELIX: Well, that's true, I suppose. On the other hand, fear can sometimes be very healthy.
MEZOTI: Explain.
NEELIX: Well, it keeps you alert, keeps you from putting yourself in unnecessary danger.
MEZOTI: I was afraid once.
ICHEB: You've been afraid many times.
NEELIX: Icheb. Do you want to tell us about it?
MEZOTI: It was when we were first disconnected from the hive mind, before Seven rescued us. I couldn't hear anyone else's thoughts anymore. I felt alone.
NEELIX: I can understand why that was frightening. When you're scared, it helps to have someone to talk to, doesn't it?
MEZOTI: Yes.
NEELIX: Of course, in my case, the only one person I had to talk to was Commander Tuvok.

[Jefferies tube]

NEELIX [OC]: I tried passing the time with a little conversation but, as you've probably noticed, he's not exactly what you'd call chatty.
NEELIX: I'll bet Starfleet has specific procedures to deal with these kinds of situations. You know, something like protocol one zero zero five. In the event your starship is invaded by a hostile electromagnetic lifeform. What do you suppose that, er, that protocol might be, exactly?
TUVOK: Rest assured, this crew is doing everything possible to regain control of the ship.
NEELIX: You're right. I'm just being silly.
TUVOK: I concur.
NEELIX: Of course, the crew of the Salvoxia probably thought they were going to regain control of their ship, too. Did I ever tell you about the Salvoxia?
TUVOK: If I say yes, will it prevent you from telling the story?
NEELIX: It was a Talaxian freighter. Horrible tragedy. Happened nearly a century ago. After suffering a cascade failure, it began to lose life support generators, one by one. Pretty soon, there wasn't enough air left to sustain the entire crew so they began to draw lots. Can you imagine? Draw the short straw and you suffocate? Anyway, the air continued to diminish, and they kept drawing lots. The crew got smaller and smaller as they waited for someone to rescue them, but no one ever came. The Salvoxia drifted through space for the next eighty years, until somebody finally found her. Makes me short of breath just thinking about it.
TUVOK: Perhaps you should occupy your mind with pleasant thoughts before you hyperventilate.
NEELIX: Right. Pleasant thoughts. Pleasant thoughts.

[Cargo Bay two]

MEZOTI: What did the bodies like?
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
MEZOTI: After eighty years. Were they decomposed?
ICHEB: They may have been preserved by the vacuum of space.
NEELIX: I shouldn't have told you that story. It's too gruesome.
ICHEB: I wonder what the crew of the Salvoxia did for food after their emergency rations were gone?
MEZOTI: Maybe they ate each other.
NEELIX: All right, that's enough. Now, where was I? We'd made it more than halfway to Engineering

[Jefferies tube]

NEELIX [OC]: When we ran into an obstacle.
(The next hatch refuses to open it. Tuvok opens it manually and they discover that it is filling with gas.)
NEELIX: Commander!
(Tuvok quickly shuts the hatch.)
NEELIX: What do we do now?
TUVOK: If I can access environmental controls, I may be able to vent the gas.
NEELIX: Is there another way around?
TUVOK: It would take several hours to reach Engineering by an alternate route. There is no guarantee we'd find a clear path.
NEELIX: Pleasant thoughts. Pleasant thoughts.
NEELIX [OC]: While we were in the Jefferies tubes

[Engineering]

NEELIX [OC]: A good number of the crew had gathered in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: Ninety seven crewmen have been accounted for. They're in secure locations throughout the ship.
KIM: Neelix?
CHAKOTAY: No one's seen him.
KIM: I shouldn't have ordered him to stay in the mess hall.
JANEWAY: You were following procedure.
TORRES: Captain. Bad news. The lifeform's infiltrated the main computer matrix.
SEVEN: As long as it remained in the gel pack, there was a chance to contain it.
TORRES: But we can't purge it from the main computer without crashing the few systems we have left.
NEELIX [OC]: Things were looking grim, but the captain was about to make a breakthrough that would change everything.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway. Captain Janeway. Captain Janeway is in main Engineering.
KIM: Sorry, Captain, I know it's irritating. I'll try to shut it down.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute. This is Captain Janeway. Respond.
COMPUTER: Authorisation code required.
JANEWAY: Janeway pi alpha.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: It's only a hunch, but I think this lifeform may be trying to communicate.
TORRES: Sounds like a comm. system malfunction to me.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure. The lifeform's been moving from system to system. If it's intelligent, it may be learning how to use those systems in some rudimentary way. Are you attempting to communicate?
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
CHAKOTAY: Even if it understands what you're saying, it may not know how to respond.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, can you call up the comm. system's syntax subroutines?
TORRES: I'll try.
JANEWAY: We're attempting to make it easier for you to speak to us. Try to access the database at engineering station three one.
COMPUTER: Database accessed.
JANEWAY: Why have you come aboard our ship?
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Astrometrics.
JANEWAY: Why do you want me to go there?
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Astrometrics.
JANEWAY: I guess I'll find out soon enough.
KIM: Captain, Astrometrics is flooded with nebular gas.
COMPUTER: Astrometrics life-support has been restored.
CHAKOTAY: It could be some kind of trap. This lifeform, whatever it is, has already injured at least eleven crewmen.
JANEWAY: I can try to establish a dialogue or I can let it take over my ship. Seven, you're with me.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: While Captain Janeway and Seven of Nine headed to Astrometrics, Tuvok was trying to ease my fears by guiding me through a meditation.

[Jefferies tube]

TUVOK: Concentrate on the rhythm of your breathing. Envision your lungs filled with light. Follow it back in time to a moment when you felt no fear. A moment of happiness, serenity.
NEELIX: My birthday dinner.
TUVOK: Describe it.

[Neelix's memory - Mess hall]

NEELIX [OC]: I was surrounded by all my friends. They'd gotten together to cook me dinner. They prepared all my favourites. Steamed chadre kab, terra nut soufflé. I felt loved, appreciated, safe.
(Neelix removes the lid from the plate Janeway has carried out of the galley. Nebula gas flows out, forming eyes and a mouth full of sharp teeth.)

[Cargo Bay]

MEZOTI: Captain Janeway served you nebular gas?
NEELIX: No, of course not. It was just my imagination playing tricks on me during the meditation. My head was too full of scary images for me to relax. The captain, on the other hand, seemed to be getting things under control.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Janeway and Seven enter wearing breathing apparatus.)
COMPUTER: Review of navigational logs in progress.
JANEWAY: Are you searching for something?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: The nebula.
COMPUTER: Manual helm control enabled.
JANEWAY: You're returning control of the ship?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: You want me to take you back to the nebula?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Well, why didn't you just say so in the first place?
SEVEN: Returning to the nebula is too dangerous. We'd risk invasion by other lifeforms.
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to think this was all an accident, not an invasion.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: Think about it. The EM surge didn't hit us until our Bussard Collectors destabilised the nebula, and then what happened?
SEVEN: The ship began experiencing random malfunctions.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure they were random. Navigational sensors were fooling us into heading back toward the nebula and then, when Tom tried to resume course, he was attacked. This lifeform isn't trying to hurt us, it's trying to get home. Can you give us access to the bridge?
COMPUTER: Life support on the bridge has been restored. Level ten authorisation required.
SEVEN: Level ten?
JANEWAY: Captain's eyes only. It wants me to go alone.

[Bridge]

NEELIX [OC]: The Captain and the lifeform had begun to establish a rapport, but the relationship was fragile.
JANEWAY: Is the viewscreen functioning normally?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to tell you this, but your nebula is gone.
COMPUTER: Clarify.
JANEWAY: The gases must have continued to dissipate after we left.
COMPUTER: Warning, Life support failure on all decks. Abandon ship. Abandon.

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: Ship. Abandon ship.
MEZOTI: The creature was that angry?
ICHEB: Its home had been destroyed.
NEELIX: The lifeform wanted Voyager for itself, and it was going to kill anyone who remained on board. Captain Janeway's only chance of saving her crew was to try to reason with the creature.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Listen to me. I can still help you.
COMPUTER: Abandon ship.
JANEWAY: There are other class J nebulas. I'll find you one.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
JANEWAY: I'd be able to comply if you gave me access to Astrometrics.
COMPUTER: Warning, oxygen depletion in progress.
(Janeway puts her mask back on.)
JANEWAY: Give me back helm control.
COMPUTER: Warning, helm circuits are overloading.
(The conn explodes.)
COMPUTER: Abandon ship.
JANEWAY: At least give me access to the comm. so I can warn my crew.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
NEELIX [OC]: As the captain was facing one of her worst fears, losing her ship

[Jefferies tube]

NEELIX [OC]: I was with Tuvok and about to face one of mine.
(Tuvok is zapped by energy.)
NEELIX: Tuvok! Lie still. I'll try to
(Purple-red gas enters the tube.)
TUVOK: Mister Neelix. Proceed without me.
NEELIX: I'm not leaving you here.
TUVOK: I am injured. Logic dictates that you take the mask and proceed to Engineering.
NEELIX: I don't care what logic dictates. This isn't the Salvoxia. We're not drawing lots.
TUVOK: I am giving you an order.
NEELIX: And I'm disobeying it. You're coming with me if I have to drag you by your pointy little ears.
NEELIX [OC]: I had no choice. I had to control my fear.
(Neelix sees the evil face in the gas.)
NEELIX: Pleasant thoughts, pleasant thoughts.
(The face disappears. Neelix takes a breath from the mask then gives it back to Tuvok.)
NEELIX [OC]: While we made our way to Engineering,

[Corridor]

NEELIX [OC]: Captain Janeway tried to make the creature reconsider what it was doing.
JANEWAY: You're going to kill everyone on this ship. Do you understand what that means?
COMPUTER: To deprive of life. Extinguish.
JANEWAY: Yes, and if you extinguish us, you'll be extinguishing yourself. You need this crew.
COMPUTER: Clarify.
JANEWAY: The technology you're using needs to be maintained. Who do you think is going to do that when we are gone? Voyager's secondary systems have already begun to fail. In a few weeks, primary systems will start to go offline.
COMPUTER: Unable to confirm.
JANEWAY: Access the internal sensors. Run a ship-wide diagnostic. See for yourself.
COMPUTER: Abandon ship.
NEELIX [OC]: The captain's rapport with the creature seemed to be breaking down

[Engineering]

NEELIX [OC]: And she couldn't afford to wait any longer.
JANEWAY: I need everyone's attention. We're abandoning ship. Get to the escape pods.
TORRES: We may not be able to eject the pods.
JANEWAY: We'll push them out if we have to.
(Neelix and Tuvok enter from the Jefferies tube.)
NEELIX: He needs medical attention.
KIM: He'll have to wait. We're abandoning ship.

[Corridor]

NEELIX [OC]: The entire crew had to evacuate. The Delta Flyer and the shuttles were launched, followed by all but one of the escape pods.
CHAKOTAY: That's everyone but the Captain and First Officer.
JANEWAY: After you.
(Chakotay gets into the escape pod, and the door shuts in her face.)
JANEWAY: I did what you asked, we're abandoning ship. What more do you want?
COMPUTER: Diagnostic completed. Secondary systems are offline. Primary systems at thirty two percent. Estimated time to failure, six days thirteen hours.
JANEWAY: That sounds about right.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Engineering.
JANEWAY: Like hell I will.
(She bumps into a forcefield.)
JANEWAY: I won't be your prisoner. You'll have to kill me.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
(Gas begins to pour in.)
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Engineering.
JANEWAY: Not until you restore life-support and give me back control of my ship.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
JANEWAY: Then we'll die here together. I'm guessing I've got about two more minutes and then you're on your own.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Engineering.
JANEWAY: I told you. The only way I'm helping is if you return control of my ship.

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: It looked like the creature was calling the captain's bluff. She was down to her last breath, but at the last moment

[Corridor]

(The gas is sucked out of the area and the forcefield is lowered.)
COMPUTER: Access to all systems has been restored.

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: It took almost two days for the crew to return to the ship. Eventually, an artificial environment was created in an isolated section of deck twelve. The creature's been living there ever since.
MEZOTI: I told you there was a monster on deck twelve.
ICHEB: Haven't you been listening? It's not a monster, it's an alien lifeform.
(Shudder.)
ICHEB: What was that?
MEZOTI: Maybe it's the alien lifeform coming to get us.
NEELIX: Haven't you learned anything about letting your imagination get the best of you?
(Power is restored.)
NEELIX: There. That little jolt was probably nothing more than our friend leaving the ship to go to a new home that the captain found for him. Time to regenerate.
REBI: What if the lifeform didn't leave?.
AZAN: What if it wants revenge?
NEELIX: What if I told you I made up the whole thing?
MEZOTI: Naomi told me you always exaggerate.
ICHEB: I knew the story wasn't true, the moment you said the Bussard Collectors produced nadion emissions.
NEELIX: I should have known better than to try fooling the four of you. All right, in you go. Pleasant dreams.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: How are the children?
NEELIX: Tucked into their alcoves, safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I hope they weren't frightened.
NEELIX: Oh, why would they be frightened, Captain?
JANEWAY: They were in the dark for three hours.
NEELIX: Oh no, not to worry. I told them a story to pass the time.
PARIS: Let me guess. Mother Goose.
NEELIX: Certainly not. Some of those fairy tales can be frightening. Ogres and child eating monsters. Speaking of which, is everything okay?
JANEWAY: We're just taking some final readings before we resume course. Show him, Harry.
(The nebula is lit up with energy in some parts.)
NEELIX: Well, I hope it lives happily ever after.


S6 E26
Unimatrix Zero Part 1
Stardate: 54014.4
Original Airdate: 24 May 2000

[Borg Queen's chamber]
(In amongst all the regenerating drones, one is displaying rapid eye movement. He is removed from his alcove and escorted to the chamber. The Queen's head, shoulder and upper spinal cord descend to be joined to her cybernetic torso, arms and legs.)
QUEEN: Four of Twelve, subjunction of Unimatrix five two five. You have a disease. You're one of many with this sickness. We want to cure you but we need a better way to identify those with the mutation. Our testing method is too slow. It could take centuries to identify everyone. Help me find the interlink frequency that binds all of you together. Then we can put an end to this, quickly, efficiently. Comply.
(The drone gasps as if being strangled.)
QUEEN: I've disconnected you from the hive mind. You're alone. I know how uncomfortable that can be. Tell me what I want to know. tThen you can rejoin us.
DRONE: I don't know.
QUEEN: You must remember something.
DRONE: I don't remember.
QUEEN: The frequency.
DRONE: I don't remember.
QUEEN: Deactivate him. Wait. Dismantle him. Bring me his cortical array.
(The drone is taken away.)

[Forest]

(Seven is strolling along a woodland path. Birds are singing, and she is enjoying the sun on her face. Other people are walking, talking and laughing together.)
WOMAN: We'll save that for next time.
(The woman vanishes.)
AXUM: Annika.
(The man holds out his hand to Seven, and she turns away. Seven wakes in her alcove.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Another milestone. You've had your first dream.
SEVEN: I felt awake.
EMH: Dreams can often seem quite real. Tell me more about this forest.
SEVEN: It was familiar.
EMH: Perhaps your unconscious mind was drawing on a childhood memory.
SEVEN: I spoke to someone. He called me by my human name.
EMH: Did you recognise him?
SEVEN: He seemed familiar.
EMH: This could give us a fascinating glimpse into your unconscious mind. Any one of those images might have a symbolic meaning. The mysterious stranger, for example. Is he a father figure or does he represent a repressed desire for male companionship?
SEVEN: I don't wish to dream again. Please repair my cortical array.
EMH: This isn't a malfunction, Seven, it's a natural step in your human development. It might seem unsettling now, but you'll get used to it. Before you know it, you'll look forward to climbing into your alcove each night. This'll keep a record of your REM cycles.
(She takes the small device and leaves.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: You're late, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Ma'am?
TUVOK: According to the ship's chronometer, by twenty two seconds.
PARIS: I'll make it up at the end of my shift.
CHAKOTAY: See that you do.
JANEWAY: Take your station.
(There is a small box on the helmsman's chair. Behind his back, Janeway is grinning broadly.)
CHAKOTAY: Open it, that's an order. Not only late but improperly dressed. That belongs on your collar, Mister Paris.
JANEWAY: Allow me. As ship's captain, I hereby reinstate you to the rank of Lieutenant, with all the privileges and responsibilities therein. Your performance on this ship over the past year has been exemplary. I expect more of the same.
PARIS: You won't be disappointed.
TORRES: Congratulations, Lieutenant.
KIM: I didn't notice a little box on my chair.
(Beep!)
PARIS: Hiding a cake in the console?
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a distress call.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
CHAKOTAY: I'm getting a carrier wave but no message.
JANEWAY: Origin?
TUVOK: An asteroid approximately two light years from here.
JANEWAY: Yellow alert. Set a course.
(Later -)
PARIS: We're in range.
JANEWAY: Drop to impulse. On screen. Magnify.
TUVOK: I'm reading artificial structures. It's a colony of some kind.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We received your distress call.
(The metallic domes and other buildings have scorch marks on them.)
JANEWAY: Lifesigns?
TUVOK: None.
KIM: I'm detecting residual weapons signatures. They're Borg.
JANEWAY: Any vessels?
TUVOK: One. A Cube at the edge of this system.
JANEWAY: Resume our previous course, Mister Paris, warp six. Make a note in the ship's record. We responded to a distress call at oh nine hundred hours. Arrived at the colony two hours later. No survivors. We don't know who these people were, but we know the Borg destroyed them.
(Seven stands in front of her alcove, hesitating. Then she puts the EMH's gizmo on her neck and steps up into her alcove to regenerate.)

[Forest]

(Night. Seven runs from a Klingon warrior.)
AXUM: Come with me.
SEVEN: I'm regenerating. This is only a dream.
AXUM: You're not dreaming. I brought you here. This is Unimatrix Zero.
SEVEN: There is no Unimatrix Zero. Who are you?
AXUM: Five of Twelve, secondary adjunct of Trimatrix nine four two. But when I'm here my name is Axum.
SEVEN: Axum.
AXUM: Sound familiar?
SEVEN: Yes.
AXUM: Good. It's starting to come back to you.
ALIEN CHILD: Is anyone here?
AXUM: Hello.
ALIEN CHILD: I think I'm lost.
(The child looks very like the humanoids from Muse, but they didn't have space technology.)
AXUM: I'm Axum. This is Annika.
ALIEN CHILD: My father's ship started shaking. Men came aboard. They looked like machines. Will you help me find my father?
AXUM: I'll see what I can do. There are other children here. Would you like to meet them?
SEVEN: I just got here, too. This environment is intimidating, but I believe it's safe.
(The boy goes ahead of them.)
SEVEN: He was just assimilated.
AXUM: He's probably still in a maturation chamber.
SEVEN: Are you telling me this isn't a real place? It's some kind of virtual construct?.
AXUM: We come here during our regeneration cycles. We can exist as individuals here.
(They look out over an inlet.)
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero.
AXUM: You used to come here, before you escaped the Collective. You have the recessive mutation, too. Don't you remember any of it?
SEVEN: No. What mutation?
AXUM: Only one out of a million drones has it.
SEVEN: Why did you bring me here now?
AXUM: The Collective has found a way to detect us. It's a lengthy procedure, but they've managed to identify and deactivate nearly two hundred of us over the last few months. It's only a matter of time before they find enough of us to isolate the interlink frequency. Once they've done that. You can help us stop them.
SEVEN: Clarify.
AXUM: We've designed a nanovirus that should mask the biochemical signature of the mutation, but we need someone to release it into the Collective.
SEVEN: You're already on a Borg vessel. Why don't you do it?
AXUM: After we've completed our regeneration cycle we have no memory of this place. You are not a part of the Collective anymore. You're our only connection to the real world.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

(The drones cortical array is removed from its severed head.)
QUEEN: Scan the node for residual harmonics. It's a shame you're not alive to experience disembodiment. It's the epitome of perfection. Give it to me. We have isolated the carrier band but it's useless to us without the precise frequency. We need additional data. Two more of the mutations have been discovered in spatial grid six four nine. Have their cortical nodes removed and analysed. Bring me the results.

[Encampment]

(Under transparent canopies.)
AXUM: Unimatrix Zero is our sanctuary. When we're here, our thoughts are our own.
SEVEN: What was my function?.
AXUM: You're thinking like a Borg. Our only function here is to try and regain a fragment of the lives we lost when we were assimilated.
ALIEN CHILD: Mister Axum?
AXUM: Go introduce yourself. They won't mind.
GIRL: Hello, do you want to play?
ALIEN CHILD: Sure.  
(An alien man appears.)
LAURA: Siral, over here. I was hoping you'd come. It's great to see you.
(He is hugged by a human woman.)
SIRAL: It's always good to be back.
SEVEN: I remember him.
AXUM: You were friends. You knew a lot of people here. You were a part of our lives for eighteen years.
SEVEN: I'm willing to help, but I can't do it alone. I'm part of a starship crew now. I'll have to inform my Captain.
(The Klingon warrior approaches them.
KOROK: I told you not to bring her here.
AXUM: We can't do this by ourselves.
KOROK: It's too great a risk.
AXUM: We don't have a choice.
KOROK: You do not speak for all of us.
AXUM: What would you rather do? Have us wait until we're all discovered? You disappoint me. Where's your warrior spirit?
KOROK: PetaQ! I'll rip your heart out.
AXUM: Go ahead, kill me. I'll be back when I begin my next regeneration cycle. You can't stop me, Korok.
KOROK: If you come here again, you'll be putting your starship at risk and all of us as well.
LAURA: Shouldn't you be off sharpening your teeth?
(Korok leaves.)
SEVEN: I know you. Your name is Laura. You're human.
LAURA: I was assimilated at Wolf three five nine. It's good to see you again. But you look out of place. Your cybernetic implants.
SEVEN: Our Doctor was unable to remove all of my Borg components.
AXUM: You don't have to look that way here.
SEVEN: My appearance is irrelevant.
AXUM: No, it's not. They may have turned us into drones, but they can't change the essence of who we are. My cycle's about to end. Talk to your captain. We can't do this without
(Axum steps out of his alcove, a drone again.)

[Briefing room]

PARIS: Another round with the Borg?
SEVEN: We'd only need to infiltrate a single vessel.
PARIS: Oh, just one?
SEVEN: I am prepared to take a shuttle and do this alone.
KIM: No offence, but how do you know that this wasn't some kind of a dream?
EMH: Seven was wearing a cortical monitor. She never reached REM sleep. She wasn't dreaming.
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero is real, and so are the people who go there. They need our help.
JANEWAY: What else can you tell us about this place? How many drones?
SEVEN: No one is certain. Axum told me there could be tens of
JANEWAY: Axum?
SEVEN: He's someone I used to know. He told me there could be tens of thousands, perhaps more.
JANEWAY: How was it created?
SEVEN: Some of them believe it began as a random malfunction during the assimilation of a single drone, and eventually spread to the others.
TORRES: Well, this is all very interesting, but are we sure it's worth putting our lives on the line?
SEVEN: It's my understanding that when we receive a distress call, we respond. Starfleet protocols.
KIM: She's right. This is no different.
JANEWAY: I understand your reluctance, but Seven's discovered a potential weakness in the Collective. Before we decide how to proceed I'd like to learn as much about it as we can.
CHAKOTAY: Too bad you don't have the luxury of an interlink node.
TUVOK: There is another possibility. A Vulcan technique known as the bridging of minds.
JANEWAY: Go on.
TUVOK: I would need to initiate a mind meld with both you and Seven, acting as a telepathic conduit.
EMH: You make it sound like a conference call. Captain, it is my professional opinion that we wait until
JANEWAY: Objection noted. I think you'll be turning in early tonight.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Stay at Yellow alert. Maintain long-range scans for Borg vessels. Any sign of trouble, you know where to find me.
CHAKOTAY: This will be one away mission for the record books.
JANEWAY: Mind melds. The last time I heard the words my mind to your mind, I had a headache for two weeks.
CHAKOTAY: I'm willing to volunteer if you'd rather hold down the fort.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your trying to protect me, but a chance to see this place? It's worth a headache.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: How many times have you actually performed this bridging of heads?
TUVOK: Minds. Never.
EMH: Then how can you be certain it'll work?
TUVOK: Nothing is certain, Doctor. However, I once observed a Vulcan master perform the technique. I am reasonably confident I can duplicate his success.
EMH: Watching and doing are two different things.
TUVOK: As always, your logic is impeccable.
EMH: What a comfort.
TUVOK: We're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Let's do it.
(The EMH puts a gizmo on Janeway's neck and she steps up into an alcove.)
TUVOK: As the conduit, I'll be aware of both your perceptions. If something goes wrong, I'll break the meld.
JANEWAY: Understood.
(Tuvok puts his hands on the women's faces. They are monitored on Neural/Synaptic monitor 147.)
TUVOK: Your minds to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. Your minds to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts.

[Forest]

SEVEN: Welcome to Unimatrix Zero.
JANEWAY: Seven?
(Seven has discarded her implants, let down her hair and donned a purple blouse.)
SEVEN: Annika. That's what I'm called here.
(A group go by, talking and laughing.)
JANEWAY: Drones?
SEVEN: Come on. Let's find Axum.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

(Another head has been severed. It is an old cast of Brent Spiner from Datalore.)
QUEEN: We're close. I can almost hear them. Bring us closer.
(It is put on a spike next to the first head.)
QUEEN: There. Amplify. Disrupt the frequency. It's not working. They're using a triaxillating modulation. You're making this very difficult. If we can't terminate their link then we'll simply have to pay them a visit.

[Forest]

AXUM: You can see why we want to protect this place.
JANEWAY: We're prepared to help you, but I'm concerned that we'd only be putting off the inevitable. Even if we succeeded and you could remain hidden for a year, ten years, the Borg would eventually find you again. Have you ever considered a more permanent solution?
AXUM: More permanent?
JANEWAY: You've got a remarkable sanctuary here, but that's all it is. Maybe it's time to stop hiding and find a way to fight back.
AXUM: That's not possible.
JANEWAY: If you could find a way to carry your individualities into the real world, to wake up from your regeneration cycles with your memories intact, you could begin to undermine the Borg's control over you.
SEVEN: It sounds like you're suggesting a civil war.
JANEWAY: I prefer to call it a resistance movement.
AXUM: That's very ambitious, Captain. But we can't retain our memories.
JANEWAY: Not yet. But we know a good deal about Borg technology. Maybe we could
(She is interrupted by a woman's scream. People are running. A drone is in the forest. It grabs a man, injects him with its tubules and he vanishes.)

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: We've found another. Spatial grid three two six, Cube one one eight four. Continue.
(One of her drones steps into an alcove and appears in the forest. It grabs a woman and injects her.)
QUEEN: Welcome back. Spatial grid nine eight two, Cube four six one.
(This drone grabs the new alien child. Korok attacks it with his bat'leth. The drone disappears. Other drones appear and are dispatched until one gets the better of Korok. Janeway picks up the bat'leth and disposes of the drone.)
QUEEN: Janeway.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: How's your headache?

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: I'm guessing it didn't go well.
JANEWAY: Let's just say we ran into a little trouble. Have a seat, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'd prefer to stand.
JANEWAY: The Collective's found a way to infiltrate Unimatrix Zero. It won't be long before they learn enough to destroy it from the inside out. I plan to stop them.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got in mind?
JANEWAY: The people there are vulnerable. They don't have the ability to take action in the real world. We're going to give them that ability.
CHAKOTAY: How?
JANEWAY: The Doctor and B'Elanna are working on it. I know what you're thinking. We'd be violating half a dozen Starfleet protocols. And if the Collective ever learned we were involved we'd be putting Voyager in the middle of a civil war. Valid objections. Chakotay, we've had our disagreements and there have been times when I've chosen to proceed without your support. But this can't be one of those times. I won't do this without my First Officer.
CHAKOTAY: The way I see it, risking the safety of Voyager is a small price to pay. If we help these people, this could be the turning point in our battle against the Borg.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we agree, because I almost talked myself out of it.
CHAKOTAY: Somehow I don't think you were ever in danger of doing that.
JANEWAY: You'll inform the crew?

[Sickbay]

(Emulation subroutine 408 is on a monitor.)
EMH: This is the nanovirus Axum designed to prevent the Borg from detecting those with the genetic mutation. But I've modified it to nullify their cortical inhibitors instead. Once they're infected, they should retain their memories of Unimatrix Zero after they leave their alcoves.
SEVEN: Does that mean they'll be able to function as individuals? Stand up to the Collective?
EMH: There's no way to tell. This is highly experimental.
JANEWAY: How do we deploy it?
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, but each Borg vessel has a device that links it to every other Borg ship.
SEVEN: The central plexus.
TORRES: If we can gain access to one of those and release the virus there, it should be transmitted throughout the Collective instantly.
JANEWAY: Any Borg activity in the region?
(Torres calls up a long range scan 321.)
TORRES: It just dropped out of transwarp three point six light years from here.
SEVEN: This is a class four tactical vessel, heavily armed. The central plexus is protected by multi-regenerative security grids. We'd be detected long before we could reach it.
JANEWAY: Meet me in main Engineering. We're going to find a way in. Prepare the virus.
EMH: Aye, Captain.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I think it's time for you to take another nap. Pay a visit to Unimatrix Zero. Tell our friends we haven't forgotten them. I couldn't help but notice you were a little different in Unimatrix Zero, and I don't mean your lack of Borg implants. You seemed more
SEVEN: Human.
JANEWAY: If you don't mind my saying so, it suited you.
SEVEN: I've been told I spent a great deal of time there. But since I don't remember Unimatrix Zero any more than I remember Earth, it's irrelevant.
JANEWAY: To you maybe, but if what I saw was any indication, Annika would disagree.

[Encampment]

AXUM: The Klingons have banded together and they're giving bat'leths to anybody who can handle one. Hirogen hunters are moving through the forest targeting drones, but we're losing people every hour.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway intends to keep her promise.
AXUM: This isn't your battle. You don't owe us anything.
SEVEN: Voyager won't abandon you.
(Axum picks up a bat'leth.)
AXUM: A gift from Korok. Takes some getting used to.
SEVEN: I'm sure you'll adapt.
LAURA: Eleven more drones, three hundred metres.

[Forest]

(Axum and Seven hide as three drones come along the path.)
AXUM: Sorry.
(He takes his arm from around Seven's shoulder.)
SEVEN: That felt familiar. Our touching.
AXUM: I told you. We were friends.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
AXUM: Now is not the best time.
(Seven kisses him.)
SEVEN: We were more than friends, weren't we? Why didn't you tell me?
AXUM: You'd forgotten. It wasn't my place.
SEVEN: How long?
AXUM: Six years. Only while we were regenerating. A very memorable six years. For me, anyway.
SEVEN: I should return to Voyager.
AXUM: Annika.
SEVEN: My name is Seven of Nine.
(Seven steps out of her alcove.)

[Engineering]

EMH: Can't we find another Borg ship? A Sphere, maybe? Something less imposing?
TORRES: I rechecked long range sensors. There's nothing.
JANEWAY: This is our target. You'll keep a transporter lock on me. Once I make it to the central plexus and release the virus, you can beam me back.
EMH: In how many pieces? It's ridiculous.
SEVEN: Agreed. I should go. I'm the only one with experience.
JANEWAY: You're our only connection to Unimatrix Zero. You're needed here. It was my decision to help these people. This is my responsibility.
TUVOK: Starfleet Tactical Directive thirty six. The captain will not engage a hostile force without the protection of a security officer. The probability of success is greater if there are two of us.
TORRES: Make that three. If you're going to pull this off you'll need an engineer in there.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Tactical directive thirty six A.
PARIS: There is no directive thirty six A.
TORRES: There is now.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer. But if that Cube attacks Voyager, you'll be needed here. Now you have your orders. Set a course, Mister Paris.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Remember when I said I didn't have any objections?
JANEWAY: Can't this wait till I get back?
CHAKOTAY: I realise I'm not going to talk you out of this, but I'll be damned if you're going in there alone.
JANEWAY: We've got a lot of work to do, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You said you wanted my support. Then take Tuvok and B'Elanna with you.
JANEWAY: And if I don't?
CHAKOTAY: I may only be First Officer, but I still pull a few strings around here. The Doctor could be persuaded to question your medical fitness.
JANEWAY: I was hoping for your unconditional support.
CHAKOTAY: This is the best I can do.
JANEWAY: Tell them to pack light.
(The lights flicker.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Report.

[Bridge]

KIM: Someone's trying to tap into the main computer.
JANEWAY [OC]: Source?
KIM: It's some kind of transwarp signal. It's activating the comm. system.
(A green light suffuses the bridge.)
KIM: Captain,

[Corridor]

KIM [OC]: I think it's for you.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: Captain.
JANEWAY: It's been a long time. How are things in the Collective?
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: Perfect, for the most part. Voyager?
JANEWAY: Never better.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: I understand you've established contact with Starfleet. Perhaps you'll be getting home sooner than you expected.
JANEWAY: Perhaps.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: We could help you.
CHAKOTAY: How so?.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: Transwarp technology. You'd find that we can be quite accommodating, but we'd expect the same in return.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure I know what you mean.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: You know exactly what I mean. Tend to your own crew. Stay away from things that don't concern you.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that, but thanks for the offer.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: I won't be as accommodating next time. Reconsider.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: We'll see you soon, Harry.
(Transmission ends.)
KIM: What did she mean by that?
CHAKOTAY: Why the stab at diplomacy?
JANEWAY: She's trying to find out what we're up to. She's worried. Have B'Elanna and Tuvok meet me in Sickbay.

[Delta Flyer]

(In the shuttlebay.)
PARIS: Watch the starboard plasma injectors. They tend to run a little hot at high impulse.
TORRES: I'll keep an eye on it.
PARIS: The warp matrix is out of alignment.
TORRES: By point three microns. Since when are you so meticulous?
PARIS: Since you volunteered for this insane mission. You know, I could sabotage the helm. You'd never make it out the launch doors.
TORRES: Then I'd have to put you on report. You might lose that new pip of yours.
PARIS: That'd be a small price to pay.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
(The Cube has a lot of extra armour.)
TORRES [OC]: Torres to bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TORRES [OC]: The Delta Flyer is ready for launch.
JANEWAY: On my way. Guess I'd better be going, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Anything you'd like done around here while you're gone? Gravity plating recalibrated, carpets cleaned?
(She takes his hand.)
JANEWAY: Surprise me. You have the bridge.

[Settlement]

SEVEN: You need to prepare the others. When they leave their alcoves they may be startled, disoriented. But they have to behave like drones or we could all be exposed.
LAURA: Our ships are scattered across the galaxy. Most of us will be the only drone on board who knows about this place.
KOROK: She's right. What can we hope to achieve?
AXUM: We should each gather as much tactical data as we can. What kind of ship we're on, its armaments, location. Then we'll coordinate our efforts from here. If all goes well, we'll be working very closely together.
SEVEN: As colleagues, nothing more. Our previous friendship
AXUM: Yes?
SEVEN: It's irrelevant.
AXUM: Irrelevant? Well, now that I'll be able to retain my memory, I'll keep that in mind.

[Bridge]

(Voyager is attacking the Cube.)
CHAKOTAY: Report.
KIM: Direct hit to their shield emitters. No damage.
CHAKOTAY: Increase phaser yield. Where's the Flyer?
PARIS: They're approaching. Heading zero one seven mark three.

[Delta Flyer]

(They are watching the fight.)
JANEWAY: Status?
TUVOK: Voyager has sustained damage, but they are continuing their assault.
TORRES: Come on, Chakotay.
TUVOK: One of the Cube's shield grids is fluctuating. Ventral axis, secondary emitter.
JANEWAY: Cut primary power. Thrusters only.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Tactical cube one three eight is under attack.
(She calls up a visual on her screen.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Our forward shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: The Flyer?
PARIS: They're closing. Fifty kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain fire.
PARIS: Thirty kilometres, twenty. They're in range.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Enhance grid six one one nine.
(She has seen the Delta Flyer.)
QUEEN: Captain, I expected something more cunning from you.

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: It's time.
JANEWAY: Their ventral shield grid?
TUVOK: Still fluctuating at a rate of point zero six terahertz.
JANEWAY: Align our transporters to match.
TUVOK: Aye.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They've detected them.
(The Delta Flyer is blown to molecules.)
EMH: They're inside.
KIM: Direct hit to the port nacelle. We're venting plasma.
PARIS: Should I back off?
CHAKOTAY: No. We need to stay close.

[Borg Cube]

(The Queen watches the away team's progress. The first two drones are easily killed with phaser rifles, but the second pair are unaffected.)
TORRES: They've adapted.

[Bridge]

(Voyager continues to throw photon torpedoes at the Cube.)
KIM: Hull breach, deck eleven.
PARIS: They're targeting our warp core.
EMH: No change yet.

[Borg Cube]

(Janeway walks into a forcefield.)
JANEWAY: We'll have to take the long way around.
(There is another one right behind them.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
(Three drones walk through the forcefield. There is a brief fight with rifle butts, then our trio are assimilated. The Queen breathes in deeply as she feels them join the Collective.)

[Bridge]

EMH: Their lifesigns are destabilising.
CHAKOTAY: So far, so good. You can take us out of here now, Tom.
(Voyager goes to warp and leaves their colleagues as full drones on the Cube.)

To Be Continued...


S7 E1
Unimatrix Zero Part 2
Stardate: 54014.4
Original Airdate: 4 October 2000

[Borg Cube]
TUVOK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: I'm all right.
(Her voice is gravelly.)
TUVOK: You've been given a subvocal processor.
TORRES: I can live with it. The captain?
TUVOK: We were separated. I don't know where they took her. We must proceed to the central plexus.
(Janeway is having a final node inserted into her brain.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Time.
PARIS: Seventeen minutes. We should have heard something by now.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor?
(Neural circuitry pattern 247.)
EMH: Their higher brain functions are stable.
KIM: The Cube's changing course. New heading, one twenty one mark six.
PARIS: Matching course and speed.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The damage to their propulsion system is regenerating. They'll be capable of transwarp in less than two hours.
CHAKOTAY: I want you inside Unimatrix Zero. When the virus is released, your friends there will be the first to know. Problem?
SEVEN: No. But I wouldn't call them my friends.
CHAKOTAY: Acquaintances then. If you're having issues with these people I suggest you set them aside.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Forest]

KOROK: Tell your hunters to patrol the north-eastern perimeter. More drones were spotted there.
HIROGEN: Understood.
KOROK: Where's that virus you promised?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is deploying it now.
KOROK: Good. The Borg have increased their attacks here. They're identifying us one by one. If you're looking for your mate, he's not here.
SEVEN: He's not my mate. He must not be regenerating.
KOROK: That or he's dead. He should have been here hours ago. No one's seen him. If he died in battle, I'm sure it was honourable. Here. help me.
(They lift a dead tree trunk and add it to a barricade.)
KOROK: It's obvious your heart is in conflict.
SEVEN: My heart is functioning perfectly.
KOROK: Some advice from a warrior in the bedchamber as well as the battlefield. At times like these you must treat your heart as the enemy so you won't be distracted in battle.
(There is a new arrival.)
SEVEN: I'll keep that in mind. Has the virus been deployed?
ALIEN MAN: I'm not sure.
SEVEN: Do you remember anything? Your location? What ship you're on?
ALIEN MAN: No, nothing.

[Borg Cube]

TORRES: The central plexus is through here.
(Two drones walk through a forcefield.)
TORRES: Those must be the shield emitters that Seven told us about.
(They step through carefully. A drone is working at a console.)
TORRES: We need to get through that hatch.
TUVOK: I will attempt to deactivate him.
(Tuvok reaches to do a neck pinch, and the drone turns around.)
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: What's left of her. How are you holding up?
TORRES: Fine.
JANEWAY: I can't access the plexus without shutting down the power grid for this section. That's bound to draw attention. Is there another way in?
TORRES: The primary access port. I think it's isolated from the main power grid.
JANEWAY: Where is it?
TORRES: About thirty metres from here.
(Tuvok is distracted by voices in his head.)
JANEWAY: Let's take a look. Tuvok. Commander.
TUVOK: I can hear the Collective.
JANEWAY: The neural suppressant must be wearing off.
TUVOK: I'll be all right.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: I heard him. The Vulcan. But he's gone. Why? Why can't I hear the others?

[Forest]

(A drone spots a male and follows him. It triggers a tripwire than sends a log smashing into its chest. It vanishes. There is another noise and two males run towards it. Seven has been caught in a net trap.)
AXUM: Leave this one to me. Comfortable?
SEVEN: Release me.
AXUM: Easier said than done. I think I designed this trap a little too well. What are you doing out here?
SEVEN: Looking for you. Korok was concerned.
AXUM: That doesn't sound like Korok.
SEVEN: He said you were missing.
AXUM: As you can see, I've been busy setting traps.
SEVEN: Not the most sophisticated technology.
AXUM: Seems to work. Hold on.
(He cuts the net and she falls into his arms.)
SEVEN: I should return to the camp. Wait for word on the virus.
AXUM: I'll go with you. In case you run into any more trouble.
SEVEN: As you wish.
AXUM: I'm sure Korok will be glad to see me.

[Borg cube]

(Janeway stands guard while Torres works on a panel.)
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Commander?
TUVOK: Stardate 38774. Vulcanis lunar colony. The time and place of my birth. Recalling the details of my life helps me remain focused. Captain, if I succumb to the Collective, I will pose a security risk. You must be prepared to deactivate me.
JANEWAY: Without the Doctor's help, that could kill you. Stay focused. Stay Tuvok. That's an order.
TORRES: Captain, I've bypassed the access codes.
(She pulls down two sets of handles, and a hatch opens.)
TORRES: Welcome to the central plexus.
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok?

[Ready room]

PARIS: Busy?
CHAKOTAY: What's on your mind.
PARIS: The away team. The plan was to give them two hours. It's been two and a half.
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor's keeping an eye on them. We'll give it a little more time. Unfortunately, not everything goes according to plan.
PARIS: You know, it occurs to me that, with you in command and Tuvok off the ship, that makes me acting First Officer. Technically speaking.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
PARIS: Well, it's my duty to give you an opinion. And in my opinion I think we should pull them out now before it's too late.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your diligence. But I've made my decision. We wait.
PARIS: How long? A day? A week?
CHAKOTAY: As long as it takes to complete the mission.
PARIS: This mission isn't worth their lives.
CHAKOTAY: You've made your point.
PARIS: Apparently not.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant. A First Officer could get in a lot of trouble for talking to his captain that way.
PARIS: Well, I've learned from the best.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your concerns, Tom, but I need your support on this.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

(A big area with a box in the middle. Torres and Janeway remove one of its panels.)
JANEWAY: Download the virus.
(Torres injects tubules into the box.)
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok.
TUVOK My daughter's name is Asil. She was born in the city of

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN and TUVOK: T'Paal. We share your memories. You are part of us now.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

TUVOK: Don't resist.

[Bridge]

EMH: There's a problem with Commander Tuvok. His synaptic pathways are destabilising.
CHAKOTAY: If I decide to move in closer, I assume my First Officer would concur.
PARIS: You assume correctly.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

(Torres disconnects from the box and Janeway replaces the panel.)
JANEWAY: We have to get out of this chamber and contact Voyager.
(Tuvok blocks their way.)
JANEWAY: You're Commander Tuvok, Tactical Officer of the starship Voyager. I'm your captain. Step aside, that's an order.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: She's irrelevant.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

TUVOK: Captain, you must deactivate me.
(But his personal shield knocks her back.)
TUVOK: My designation is Three of Twelve.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: Where are you, Tuvok? The central plexus.
(More drones arrive there.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Range, forty thousand kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Harry?
KIM: Too much shielding around the central plexus. I can't get a lock.
CHAKOTAY: Stay on it. Closer.

[Borg Cube]

TORRES: This way.
(Tuvok knocks her down, then catches Janeway)

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

(Voyager is on the screen.)
QUEEN: Back so soon?

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Target their shield generators. Stand by phasers.
PARIS: Commander?
(A green Borg torpedo is heading their way.)
CHAKOTAY: Shields to full. Brace for impact.
KIM: Someone's accessing our tactical controls. Our shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
(The torpedo punches a hole in the hull.)
EMH: Sensors are offline. I've lost the away team.
KIM: Hull breaches, decks five, six, seven.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course.
PARIS: We can't just leave them.
CHAKOTAY: The Borg have our access codes. Get us out of here.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Thank you, Tuvok. I'm losing voices. Five in spatial grid ninety six, twelve in grid one eight two. Hundreds now. Thousands.
(There are dark spots in the central plexus. The Queen goes to a nearby drone.)
QUEEN: I can't hear you. Why can't I hear you? You've disconnected from the hive mind. Explain. Comply.
DRONE: No!
(He tries to attack her, and bounces of her personal forcefield. Two drones take his arms.)
DRONE: I'm not alone. You can't stop us all.
(Tuvok and a drone put Janeway into an alcove and activate a forcefield around it. A hologram of her is beamed into the Queen's Chamber as her human self in Starfleet uniform.)
QUEEN: I altered the transmission to restore your original appearance. I know now vain humans can be.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Why am I here?
QUEEN: You've caused a great deal of suffering. I wanted you to see for yourself. You are the cause of his death, Captain. You disconnected him from the hive mind.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You didn't have to kill him.
QUEEN: He was confused, irrational. I had no choice. Many more will die unless you tell me how to counteract the virus.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Sorry, we didn't think to develop an antidote.
QUEEN: I'll assimilate Voyager, then. Your Doctor created the pathogen. He can find a cure.
HOLO-JANEWAY: My First Officer has orders to delete the Doctor's programme if you go anywhere near

[Borg Cube]

JANEWAY: Voyager. The resistance is already underway. It won't be long before thousands of drones begin to fight back. 

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: They will fail.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Maybe. Probably. But a lot of damage will be done before they do.
QUEEN: Yes, a lot of damage. Spatial grid nine four, cube six three zero. Complement sixty four thousand drones. But I can no longer hear three of them. No doubt they've joined your resistance. Are they trying to sabotage the vessel and liberate others? I don't know, because I can no longer hear them. Initiate self-destruct.
(The Cube goes KaBOOM!)
QUEEN: An effective solution, don't you agree? Spatial grid zero nine one, sphere eight seven eight. Complement eleven thousand drones. Only one is silent. But I have no choice. I must silence all of them. (KaBOOM)  I know how this must upset you, Captain. As a Starfleet officer, you value all life. Even drones. How many more are you willing to sacrifice? Thousands? Millions? You can put an end to this. I want you to go on a diplomatic mission. It's one of your primary functions, isn't it? Negotiations?
HOLO-JANEWAY: Go on.
QUEEN: Tell them to rejoin the Collective, and I'll stop the destruction.
HOLO-JANEWAY: They will never agree to that.
QUEEN: They're individuals now. They have a choice. What are you afraid of, Captain? That they may cooperate? You've been waiting for a chance to damage the Borg. Now you've found one. You're only using them.
HOLO-JANEWAY: If you really wanted to negotiate, you'd visit Unimatrix Zero. You found a way to send drones. Surely you could go yourself. Or are you afraid that a taste of individuality might make you realise it's something worth fighting for?
QUEEN: Comply or you will be responsible for many more deaths.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You'll have to destroy the entire Collective to find them all.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Several drones have reported that they retained their memories of Unimatrix Zero after their regeneration ended. The virus has been deployed.
CHAKOTAY: Good. We're going to need all the help we can get. The away team's still trapped on that Cube.
KIM: And as you may have noticed, we're in no shape to mount a rescue.
PARIS: Can you get back in? Find out if they have anybody else aboard this Cube?
CHAKOTAY: If they do, tell them to hurry. They're the only allies we've got.
EMH: I'd like to make a few adjustments to your alcove before you return.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: When this crisis ends I'll come up with a more permanent solution, so you can spend more time in Unimatrix Zero. You're in a unique position. Not many of us get to lead a double life.
SEVEN: When this crisis ends I intend to sever my link to Unimatrix Zero.
EMH: May I ask why?
SEVEN: I'm having difficulties with one of the people there.
EMH: Mister Axum? Whenever you mention his name, your pupils dilate by nearly a millimetre, blood flow increases to your facial capillaries. Both are consistent with an emotional response.
SEVEN: Axum and I apparently had a relationship.
EMH: Oh. Romantic? There go those pupils again.
SEVEN: Your diagnosis is accurate.
EMH: Well, how ironic. All this time we've been trying to develop that aspect of your humanity, and it's been there all along.
SEVEN: Not any more.
EMH: My readings say otherwise. You're very particular about who you choose to spend time with, Seven. No doubt that's why you and I have become friends. If you were involved with Axum once, doesn't that suggest he's a worthwhile individual?
SEVEN: He does possess commendable qualities.
EMH: Coming from you, that's high praise. There's nothing wrong with feeling ambivalent, Seven. After all, you're in the middle of a civil war. But eventually, you may want to give this romance a second chance. Who knows? You may even get to meet him in person someday.
(Seven steps into her alcove.)
EMH: I'll say this for your Mister Axum. he's a very lucky man.

[Settlement]

AXUM: The Collective has found a new way to attack us. Eleven ships have self-destructed in the last three hours.
KOROK: We need to coordinate a battle plan. A way to strike at the heart of the Collective.
AXUM: Our target should be the primary Unicomplex. If we can disrupt the Queen's control of the hive mind, it'll give us a chance to organise, build up a fighting force.
SEVEN: There is one more objective. The Voyager away team.
KOROK: They fought like warriors. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten.
SEVEN: We can still rescue them.
AXUM: She's right. They risked their lives for us. Now it's our turn.
KOROK: There's no time.
AXUM: It's a matter of honour, Korok. I thought you of all people would understand that.
KOROK: I'll see if any of our people are on a vessel near theirs.
SEVEN: Thank you.
AXUM: It's the least we can do.
SEVEN: What's wrong?
AXUM: It turns out I'm on a scout ship patrolling the border of fluidic space. On the other side of the galaxy.
SEVEN: I was hoping we'd be able to meet one day in the real world.
AXUM: Me too. There are things I can do where I am. I'll try to contact species 8472, see if I can persuade them to join the fight.
SEVEN: Given their history with the Borg, I'm sure they'll be eager. I guess this rules out Vorothon Gorge.
AXUM: Gorge?
SEVEN: It was at the top of our list of things to see in the real world if we were ever freed from the Collective. Don't you remember?
AXUM: We could add fluidic space to our list. We still have Unimatrix Zero.
SEVEN: It was sufficient before.
AXUM: And now?
(Seven takes his hand, and they kiss.)

[Forest]

ALIEN BOY: Where are you?
BOY [OC]: Over here.
(The alien boy crawls along on hands and knees until he reaches a pair of legs.)
QUEEN: Don't be frightened. Stand up, let me look at you. Comply
ALIEN BOY: You're one of the machine people. You're trying to hurt us.
QUEEN: That's the last thing I want to do. I'm here to help you. All of you.
ALIEN BOY: They said you want to assim. Assima.
QUEEN: Assimilate you. Yes. But that's nothing to be afraid of. You like having friends, don't you? Assimilation turns us all into friends. In fact, it brings us so close together we can hear each other's thoughts.
ALIEN BOY: Is that fun?
QUEEN: Yes. It's fun. I was just about your age when I was assimilated. I was worried then, too. But when I began to hear the others, hear their thoughts, I wasn't afraid anymore.
ALIEN BOY: Don't you miss your parents?
QUEEN: They're here, with me. Part of us. I can hear them right now. Would you like to be with your parents? They miss you. They want to see you.
ALIEN BOY: Can I talk to them?
QUEEN: Soon. But first I'd like to see more of this.
ALIEN BOY: There's a place where you can see the whole forest.
(The Queen holds out her hand.)
QUEEN: Show me.
(He takes her hand and leads her to the view over the inlet and settlement.)
ALIEN BOY: It's pretty, isn't it?

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: I took your advice, Captain. I paid a visit to Unimatrix Zero. It's far more primitive than I expected. I don't understand how anyone could prefer a crude environment to Borg perfection.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Spend a little more time there. You might find out.
QUEEN: I've seen enough. It's an illusion.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Even so, the people who go there are real, and they won't give it up without a fight.
QUEEN: They'll fail. I thought you'd like to see our latest accomplishment. Recognise it?
HOLO-JANEWAY: No.
QUEEN: I think you do. It's your nanovirus, with a few modifications. We've reprogrammed it to target your mutated drones. Once it's released, it will erode their autonomic functions. They will die within minutes.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You have no way to deliver it. Those drones have been separated from the hive mind. They aren't linked to the central plexus anymore.
QUEEN: No. But there's another way I can reach them. I'm prepared to go back to Unimatrix Zero and release it myself. But I'm willing to reconsider. It all depends on you.
JANEWAY: Me?
QUEEN: If they rejoin the Collective, I'll spare their lives. They listen to you. Tell them it's time to come home. You were responsible for many deaths. Now you can save thousands. Decide.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Let's try this again. Ensign?
KIM: The warp core is online. Navigational array. Shields at twenty percent.
NEELIX: We've got sensors. Short range only.
CHAKOTAY: It's a start. Try to get a fix on the away team.
(And the power goes down again.)
PARIS: Now what?
KIM: Someone's tapping into our holographic systems.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: It's a Borg signal.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: Someone's here to see you and Seven, Commander. You'd better come down here right away.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
HOLO-JANEWAY: The Borg have established this link so I can propose a compromise.
CHAKOTAY: We're listening. 

[Borg Cube]

JANEWAY: They've developed a nanovirus that can kill every Borg with the mutation. They're prepared to release it inside Unimatrix Zero unless all the drones there return to the Collective

[Sickbay]

HOLO-JANEWAY: For reassimilation immediately.
SEVEN: That's not compromise, that's surrender.
HOLO-JANEWAY: I won't be responsible for any more deaths. At least they'll survive as drones. Tell them Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. That's an order. Have I made myself clear, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Captain.
(The hologram flickers out.)
EMH: We did our best.
CHAKOTAY: It's not over yet, Doctor. Can you disrupt the interlink frequency for Unimatrix Zero?
EMH: Commander, the Captain gave us a direct order.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, she did, but not the one you think. Seven?
SEVEN: I believe I can, but why?
CHAKOTAY: Didn't you hear? Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. Chakotay to the bridge. Report.

[Bridge]

PARIS: A transwarp conduit just opened off our port bow.
NEELIX: Lieutenant?
KIM: They're on an intercept course.
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres. Battle stations.
NEELIX: They're hailing us.
PARIS: Open a channel.
KOROK [on viewscreen]: Starship Voyager, I am General Korok. This vessel is now under my command. We've come to join you in battle.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Your crewmates are coming to retrieve you. You were wise to comply.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine. We're almost in range.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Stand by. I've isolated the frequency.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Get Korok.

[Korok's Sphere]

KOROK: Our emitters are fully charged.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: You should be receiving the interlink frequency.
KOROK: We have it.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Wait for my signal.

[Settlement]

AXUM: We have to end our regeneration cycles. We can't be here when it happens.
LAURA: Will there be anything left?
AXUM: I know we're being asked to make a sacrifice, but it's the only way.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're in range.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields. All weapons online. Voyager to Korok. It's time.
(The two vessels power their deflectors.)

[Settlement]

(The environment begins to break down, like a defective holodeck.)
AXUM: You must go.
(Axum is left alone.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Bridge, it's working. Unimatrix Zero is shutting down.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Voyager to Korok. Now.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: What are they doing?
HOLO-JANEWAY: You wanted to destroy Unimatrix Zero. We're just lending you a hand.
QUEEN: Get me the virus.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You're too late. There's no one left to infect.
QUEEN: This is your compromise?
HOLO-JANEWAY: I don't compromise with Borg.

[Korok's Sphere]

(It approaches Janeway's Cube)
KOROK: Match their shield modulations and fire.
(Korok attacks the Cube, then Voyager comes in with torpedoes. Torres goes to a panel to see what is happening outside. Seven runs out of Astrometrics.)

[Bridge]

NEELIX: I'm picking up the away team.
KIM: I'm isolating their bio-signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Get a lock.
KIM: I still can't penetrate their inner shields.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Korok. Status?

[Korok's Sphere]

KOROK: Patience, Commander. They're trying to remodulate their secondary shield grid.

[Bridge]

KOROK [OC]: I'm attempting to compensate.
(Seven runs into her alcove.)

[Settlement]

AXUM: You shouldn't be here.
SEVEN: Neither should you.
(They hug.)
SEVEN: I've wasted our time together.
AXUM: No, you didn't. It gave us a chance to fall in love again.
SEVEN: We've lost our only way to be together.
AXUM: No. I'll find you.
SEVEN: Axum.
AXUM: I'll find you.
(He disappears, then Seven wakes up. In the Cube, Torres knocks out a drone and works on the shield controls.)

[Korok's Sphere]

KOROK: Shields in sub-grid forty two are destabilizing. Target that section.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

(Janeway's hologram disappears.)
QUEEN: Initiate self-destruct.
(The Cube starts to explode.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.
(The Cube goes KaBOOM! catching the Sphere and Voyager with its shockwave. The away team are met in the transporter room by a medical team.)

Chief medical officer's log, stardate 54014.4. It's been forty eight hours since the away team returned to Voyager. Thanks to the neural suppressant, I've been able to extract most of their Borg technology. The Captain and B'Elanna are on the mend, but Tuvok will need a little more time to recover.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: General Korok is finished with his repairs. He's already been contacted by another Borg vessel in the region. It's also under the control of former drones.
JANEWAY: The Doctor removed my spinal clamps but it'll be a while before I'm playing hoverball again. If I ever imply it's been easy on you these last few years, remind me about today.
SEVEN: Noted.
JANEWAY: Well, Unimatrix Zero may be gone but it looks like the resistance is alive and kicking. With any luck, the Collective may never be the same.
SEVEN: Korok said he would try to maintain contact, keep us informed.
JANEWAY: Have you heard from your friend?
SEVEN: No. But I don't expect to. Axum's vessel is in a remote sector of the Beta Quadrant. If I ever imply that he was nothing more than a friend, remind me about today.


S7 E2
Imperfection
Stardate: 54129.4
Original Airdate: 11 October 2000

Captain's log, stardate 54129.4. It's a bittersweet day for the crew of Voyager. We've finally found a home for some of our most precious cargo.
[Transporter room]

(An alien woman stands with the former Borg children.)
WYSANTI: Thank you again for taking care of them, Captain. We're very grateful.
JANEWAY: We're just glad that Rebi and Azan will have a chance to grow up with their own people, and that you've been kind enough to let Mezoti join them.
MEZOTI: You can still come with us.
ICHEB: And you can still stay on Voyager.
MEZOTI: Adapting to your absence will be difficult.
ICHEB: I'll miss you, too.
SEVEN: It's time.
MEZOTI: I've been studying all available data relevant to this species, as you recommended.
SEVEN: Familiarising yourself with their culture will help you adapt.
MEZOTI: On Wysanti, it is not customary to say goodbye but, I think I prefer the human way.
(Mezoti hugs Seven, then the twins do the same.)
JANEWAY: Energise.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: We should deactivate the children's alcoves.
ICHEB: Right now?
SEVEN: They're a drain on Voyager's power reserves. Is there a problem?
ICHEB: It just seems like an insufficient amount of time has passed.
SEVEN: You're having an emotional response to the children's departure. They'll be fine. We should be happy for them.
ICHEB: Seven?
(He sees a tear rolling down her chin.)
SEVEN: Yes?
ICHEB: You're crying.
SEVEN: My ocular implant must be malfunctioning.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Crying is nothing to be ashamed of, Seven. You should have seen me the first time I heard Puccini's Tosca in the holodeck. I sobbed through the entire third act.
SEVEN: You're a hologram. You can't cry.
EMH: Ordinarily. But Lieutenant Torres enhanced my emotional subroutines so I could truly appreciate the performance.
SEVEN: Then your reaction was the result of a technological enhancement, just as mine was the result of a technological malfunction.
EMH: Saying goodbye to the children was a traumatic experience. Crying was a normal response.
SEVEN: Except that I was in complete control of my emotions.
EMH: Hmm. It seems I owe you an apology. According to this, your tears were the result of a glitch in your primary cortical node. Have you experienced any other malfunctions lately? Headache? Dizziness? Diminished motor function?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Really? Then you won't mind if I check the bio-monitors in your alcove, just to be sure?
SEVEN: I've experienced an occasional headache.
EMH: Why didn't you come to see me?
SEVEN: The malfunctions have not affected my work.
EMH: Seven, if you're having problems, you need to let me know.
SEVEN: If it'll make you feel better, I'll be more forthcoming in the future.
EMH: You're all heart. I'll schedule some follow-up tests and make my report to the Captain.
SEVEN: I'd prefer to keep this between us. I don't want to worry the Captain.
EMH: We've always kept her informed of your medical needs.
SEVEN: It was my understanding that all members of this crew have the right to doctor-patient confidentiality.
EMH: If you want to keep this between us, that's where it'll stay.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Icheb is looking at a Starfleet Academy Application for Admission on the screen when he hears the doors open. He quickly changes the display.)
SEVEN: Have you finished charting the nebula in sector nine four nine?
ICHEB: Several hours ago. I've been thinking. While I'm grateful for the opportunity to assist you in Astrometrics, I'd like to take on more challenging assignments.
SEVEN: I can assign you additional diagnostics.
ICHEB: That's not what I meant. I want to work on the bridge.
SEVEN: You don't have the proper training.
ICHEB: That's why I'd like to take the entrance exam for Starfleet Academy. I could forward it to Earth in the next datastream transmission. If I pass, I could take the basic classes from Commander Tuvok. He was an instructor at the Academy.
SEVEN: Your plan is ambitious.
ICHEB: Then you think it's a good idea? You could take the classes with me. Earn your own commission.
SEVEN: I believe I've already assimilated enough Starfleet training.
ICHEB: I'll need a letter of recommendation from the captain.
SEVEN: I'll speak to her.
(Something moves under the skin of Seven's right hand. She covers it with her left.)
SEVEN: I have work to complete in the Cargo bay. Can you finish here?
ICHEB: Of course.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Computer, initiate regeneration cycle.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
SEVEN: Why?
COMPUTER: The interface is incompatible.
SEVEN: Run a diagnostic of alcove zero one.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. Alcove zero one is operating within normal parameters.
SEVEN: Initiate regeneration cycle.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
SEVEN: Clarify.
COMPUTER: Your cortical node is malfunctioning.

[Mess hall]

(Seven is drinking her third glass of nutrients in the starlight. Neelix enters and turns on the light. She winces.)
NEELIX: Seven, I didn't see you.
SEVEN: I was just leaving.
NEELIX: Before breakfast?
SEVEN: What time is it?
NEELIX: Oh five hundred. Don't tell me you've been here all night.
SEVEN: I was unable to regenerate.
NEELIX: Anything on your mind?
SEVEN: My alcove is malfunctioning.
NEELIX: Well, you should ask B'Elanna to take a look at it.
SEVEN: I didn't want to wake her.
NEELIX: What's all this?
SEVEN: Nutritional supplements. I thought they would compensate.
NEELIX: Your own recipe?
SEVEN: It's a mixture of metabolic enzymes and protein extract.
NEELIX: Let me make you one of my Talaxian omelettes. It may not have as many enzymes, but it'll taste better.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. I think I'll take your advice and wake Lieutenant
(Seven collapses. Some skin peels back from her face to reveal metal, and she starts to convulse.)
NEELIX: Seven! Neelix to Sickbay, medical emergency!

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: You lost consciousness in the mess hall. Your body's begun to reject your implants.
EMH: I'm afraid it's a result of that glitch we found in your cortical node. Apparently, it's more serious than we thought.
(Cortical scan 138 does not bring good news.)
SEVEN: The node is destabilising.
EMH: It's no longer able to regulate your implants. They're shutting down one by one.
SEVEN: When you've disconnected implants in the past, I've always adapted.
EMH: Minor implants. An assimilation tubule here, a few nanoprobes there. Nothing crucial to your human physiology. But these implants control your vital functions.
SEVEN: And without my cortical node to regulate them, I'll die. Correct?
(Janeway is suddenly fascinated by her own fingernails.)
SEVEN: Borg technology is highly adaptive. My cortical node will repair itself in time.
EMH: I don't think so, Seven. If anything, the deterioration is accelerating.
JANEWAY: You'll have to stay here for observation.
SEVEN: I think I've been sufficiently observed.
JANEWAY: Would you excuse us, please?
(The EMH leaves them.)
JANEWAY: I'm sorry for what's happening. You have every right to be angry, but that isn't going to help us solve this problem.
SEVEN: The node will correct itself.
JANEWAY: Suppose it doesn't, for the sake of argument. Is it possible to replicate a new one?
SEVEN: The technology is too complex.
JANEWAY: What if this had happened when you were part of the Collective? How would the Borg have repaired the damage?
SEVEN: They wouldn't have. Trying to repair a node would be a futile exercise. The Borg would simply replace it.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Harry, we passed a Borg debris field six or seven days ago just outside the Yontasa Expanse. See if you can find it on long range sensors.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: It's not every day we go looking for the Borg. What's up?
JANEWAY: Seven needs a new cortical node.
TUVOK: Captain, need I remind you the Borg often return to salvage damaged cubes.
JANEWAY: It's a risk I'm willing to take.
CHAKOTAY: I want to help Seven as much as anyone, but if we're not careful we'll all end up with cortical nodes.
JANEWAY: That's why I'm taking the Flyer, alone.
KIM: I've located the debris field.
JANEWAY: Transmit the coordinates to the Flyer. You have the bridge, Commander.
PARIS: With all due respect. The last time you took the Delta Flyer to confront the Borg, it ended up in a couple of thousand pieces.
JANEWAY: I intend to bring it back in one piece this time.
PARIS: A good pilot might be able to help you do that.
TUVOK: Particularly if he's accompanied by an experienced Tactical Officer.
CHAKOTAY: You shouldn't do this by yourself, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well then, gentlemen, I guess you're with me.

[Corridor]

ICHEB: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll meet you in the shuttlebay.
(Tuvok and Paris go on ahead.)
ICHEB: Have you talked to Seven?
JANEWAY: Just a few minutes ago.
ICHEB: And you don't approve?
JANEWAY: Of what?
ICHEB: My request.
JANEWAY: Request?
ICHEB: I'm sure Seven will discuss it with you when she has the chance. I'm sorry I bothered you.
JANEWAY: Obviously, no one's told you.
ICHEB: Told me what?
JANEWAY: Seven isn't well.
ICHEB: What's wrong with her?
JANEWAY: Her cortical node is failing.
ICHEB: Her cortical node? She's going to die.
JANEWAY: Not if we find a new node. We're on our way to search a Borg debris field.
ICHEB: I have experience in Borg technology. Let me come with you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but it's too dangerous.
ICHEB: I'm willing to take the risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not willing to let you. I'll let you know how we did as soon as we're back. Don't worry.

[Sickbay]

(Seven is resting on a biobed.)
ICHEB: Seven?
SEVEN: Why are you here?
ICHEB: The captain told me you were ill.
SEVEN: I'm fine.
ICHEB: Then why are you in Sickbay?
SEVEN: That's not your concern. You have work to complete. Report to Astrometrics.
ICHEB: I've finished my work.
SEVEN: Then I'll assign you more.
(The EMH comes out of his office.)
EMH: Is there a problem?
SEVEN: I wish to be alone.
EMH: Come with me, please.

[Medical lab]

(They walk through the office.)
ICHEB: Why is she so angry with me?
EMH: She's not angry with you. She's just angry.
ICHEB: I don't understand.
EMH: It's a common response to serious illness. She's frustrated to be confined. Embarrassed to appear vulnerable.
ICHEB: She shouldn't be embarrassed in front of me. I'm her friend.
EMH: And her pupil. She doesn't want you or anyone else to see her when she's not at her best.
ICHEB: It's not her fault that she's sick.
EMH: Of course not. But we have to allow her to deal with this in her own way, with as much dignity as possible. Give her time. She may decide she wants company. And if she does, you're the first person I'll call.

[Delta Flyer]

(The Flyer arrives at the debris field.)
TUVOK: I have isolated a section that contains the bodies of approximately thirty seven drones.
PARIS: Thirty seven doesn't sound approximate to me.
TUVOK: These drones were killed in an explosion. There are only a few left intact.
JANEWAY: Looks like there's still a breathable atmosphere inside. Any sign of any active Borg ships in the vicinity?
PARIS: Nothing on sensors.
JANEWAY: That could change in a hurry. Run continuous scans.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Borg vessel]

JANEWAY: Tuvok, here. Help me get this off him.
(They move a piece of metal to reveal a drone.)
JANEWAY: No apparent damage to the cortical node.
(Janeway uses a laser scalpel to cut a hole in the drone's forehead above its right eye. Then she presses a tiny switch and the node pops up. She removes it with tweezers.)
PARIS [OC]: Captain, you've got company. There's a ship
TUVOK: Two to beam out.
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer, respond.
TUVOK: Three humanoids have just transported aboard this vessel.
JANEWAY: Drones?
SALVAGE ALIEN: The only drones here are dead, and they belong to us. Who are you?
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the starship Voyager.
SALVAGE ALIEN: This is my debris field, Captain.
JANEWAY: We weren't aware of that.
SALVAGE ALIEN: What have you taken?
JANEWAY: A cortical node. We need it to save one of my crew.
SALVAGE ALIEN: Everything here belongs to us.
(Janeway quickly grabs him around the throat and puts her laser scalpel to his head.)
JANEWAY: Put down your weapons and I'll consider not activating this laser scalpel.
(He breaks her hold. Tuvok shoots his companions, but is shot himself. Janeway grabs the medkit and rifle just as they are beamed out. The alien's weapon fire goes straight through her.)

[Delta Flyer]

(The Flyer is under attack from the salvage ship.)
PARIS: Sorry about the delay. They knocked our transporters offline.
(Janeway helps Tuvok into a seat. Paris flies deeper into the debris field, but he cannot shake their pursuers.)
PARIS: I need you at tactical. When I bring us around, target their engine core.
JANEWAY: Aye, sir.
(Paris loops around a hunk of debris and gets behind them. Janeway fires phasers.)
PARIS: Nice shot. They're breaking pursuit.

[Sickbay]

(The Doctor is in his office when he realises Seven is using a sickbay console.)
EMH: May I ask what you're doing?
SEVEN: Your filing system is inefficient. I'm implementing a new one.
EMH: You should be in bed.
NEELIX: Delivery for Seven of Nine. Tarcanian wildflowers. Cheery, don't you think? Ah. If you prefer gladiolas, I could go back to the Airponics bay.
EMH: That won't be necessary, Mister Neelix. The flowers are lovely, aren't they, Seven?
SEVEN: Thank you. I'll admire them later.
NEELIX: Actually, I thought I'd stay and keep you company.
EMH: Seven prefers not to have visitors right now.
NEELIX: Not even a visitor with a Kadis-kot board?
SEVEN: Correct.
NEELIX: But it's your favourite game.
EMH: Personally I can't blame her. You're being extremely insensitive.
NEELIX: I am?
EMH: You know perfectly very well Seven is in a weakened state. She wouldn't stand a chance against you.
NEELIX: You're right. I don't know what I was thinking. We'll play later when you're feeling up to it.
SEVEN: Green.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: I prefer the green pieces. You'll use red.
NEELIX: Doctor, do you think she's up to it?
EMH: As long as you go easy on her.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to the Doctor.
EMH: Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY [OC]: We're back and we have the node.
(Seven is in the surgical bay, unconscious. She is covered only by a sheet. The skin over her node has been removed. Paris is acting as scrub nurse.)
EMH: I'm ready to disengage the damaged node. Transfer Seven's cortical functions to the computer.
JANEWAY: Understood. Done.
EMH: Initiating the extraction.
(The green light part of Seven's node is flickering, not a constant glow.)
JANEWAY: Vital functions are stable.
EMH: Time?
JANEWAY: Twenty seconds.
EMH: Not yet, I have to realign her primary neurodes first.
JANEWAY: The computer can't maintain her cortical functions much longer.
EMH: Ready.
(Paris hands him the new node.)
JANEWAY: Her neural relays are going to destabilise in ten seconds, nine.
EMH: Almost finished.
JANEWAY: Eight, seven, six, five.
(The node goes down into Seven's brain.)
EMH: Transfer Seven's cortical functions to the new node.
JANEWAY: Something's wrong.
PARIS: She's going into anaphylactic shock.
EMH: Her implants aren't adapting. They're rejecting the new node.
PARIS: It's losing synaptic cohesion.
EMH: Apply a twenty millijoule neurostatic pulse on my mark. Now.
JANEWAY: No effect.
EMH: Again.
JANEWAY: Increase the pulse. Thirty millijoules.
(The EMH removes the node.)
EMH: Computer, end simulation.

[Holodeck]

JANEWAY: Why did you stop?
EMH: It wasn't working.
JANEWAY: Run it again.
PARIS: Captain, this was our twelfth simulation. Something tells me thirteen won't be our lucky number.
EMH: The salvaged node has been inactive too long.
JANEWAY: Then we'll find one that hasn't.

[Corridor]

EMH: No matter how many debris fields we sift through, a node from a dead drone isn't going to work.
JANEWAY: Who said anything about a dead drone?
EMH: What's that supposed to mean?
JANEWAY: We've infiltrated Borg vessels before. If that's what it's going to take to save Seven, we'll do it again.
EMH: Are you suggesting ending one life to save another?
JANEWAY: I'm not giving up on her.
EMH: Neither am I. I'll do everything in my power to help her, but we both have to face the possibility that it may not be enough.

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: Red, grid thirteen three.
SEVEN: They should have finished the simulation by now.
NEELIX: I'm sure they'll let you know as soon as they do. Your move.
SEVEN: Don't you have more important duties to attend to?
NEELIX: Nothing that can't wait.
SEVEN: Despite what the Doctor told you, I feel perfectly fine.
NEELIX: Really? Because it looks to me like you're about to lose.
SEVEN: Kadis-kot.
NEELIX: I should have seen that coming. Ah well, that makes what, sixteen to three, your lead?
SEVEN: Sixteen to two.
NEELIX: Oh, my mistake.
(Janeway and the EMH enter.)
NEELIX: Oh, er, I should really see how things are going in the mess hall. But I'll be back later for a rematch.
SEVEN: Are you ready to proceed?
(Neelix leaves.)
JANEWAY: According to the simulations, the salvaged node isn't going to work. I'm sorry.
EMH:: I'm still researching alternative treatments, and Harry and B'Elanna are going to try to repair the faulty node using components from your alcove.
SEVEN: They'll fail.
EMH: We're not giving up hope. Neither should you.
SEVEN: With your permission I'd like to return to my duties.
EMH: That's not possible. I need to monitor your condition.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I have to defer to the Doctor.
EMH: If you'd like, I can ask Icheb to bring some of your work here.
(Seven gives a small nod. Later, Icheb enters. The place is empty.)
ICHEB: Doctor? Computer, locate the Doctor.
COMPUTER: The EMH is offline.
ICHEB: Activate the EMH.
EMH: Forced to sedate you!
ICHEB: Doctor?
EMH: I'm sorry, Icheb. I wasn't talking to you.
ICHEB: Where's Seven?
EMH: I wish I knew. When I refused to release her she overrode my autonomy protocols. In the middle of a sentence, no less.
ICHEB: Computer, locate Seven of Nine.
COMPUTER: Seven of Nine is in Sickbay.
(Her comm. badge is on a console.)

[Engineering - upper level]

TORRES: He's looking for you. The Doctor, I ran into him in the corridor. He's about thirty seconds away from calling a ship-wide alert.
SEVEN: Are you going to tell him where I am?
TORRES: No. I know what it's like to be stuck in Sickbay. I've escaped the Doctor myself once or twice.
SEVEN: Thank you.
TORRES: Any time.
SEVEN: Lieutenant. When you die, do you believe your spirit will go to Sto-Vo-Kor?
TORRES: You shouldn't be thinking about dying.
SEVEN: According to the Doctor's simulations, any attempt to adapt the salvaged node will fail. Sto-Vo-Kor, Lieutenant. Do you believe you'll go there?
TORRES: I guess it all depends on how honourable my death is.
SEVEN: But you do believe there's something after death?
TORRES: I hope so. What about you?
SEVEN: The Borg have no concept of an afterlife. However, when a drone is deactivated, its memories continue to reside in the Collective's consciousness. As long as the hive exists, so will a part of that drone.
TORRES: You don't seem to take much comfort in that.
SEVEN: My link to the Collective has been severed for nearly four years. If I die, everything that I have accomplished in that time, everything I achieved as an individual, will be lost. My memories, my experiences. It will be as if they, as if I never existed.
TORRES: I think you're a little more memorable than you're giving yourself credit for. You don't need the Collective to validate your existence. You've made an impact on every member of this crew. That's your legacy.
(The EMH enters main Engineering and looks up.)
EMH: There you are. I should have known she'd be the one to harbour a fugitive.
TORRES: We difficult patients need to stick together.
EMH: I want you to return to Sickbay immediately.
SEVEN: Have you devised a new treatment?
EMH: Not yet.
SEVEN: Then it's best that I don't distract you from finding one.
EMH: Seven, if you continue to exert yourself, your condition will only deteriorate more rapidly. Is that what you want?
SEVEN: What I want is to be useful.
TORRES: I really could use her help. I promise not to let her overdo it.
EMH: You can stay, provided you wear this cortical monitor.
(He throws it up to Seven, who catches it. The EMH leaves.)
SEVEN: Thank you.
(Seven puts on the monitor and returns to her work.)

[Astrometrics lab]

ICHEB: Are you feeling better?
SEVEN: My condition is unchanged. I've spoken to the Captain about your desire to apply to Starfleet Academy. She's agreed to administer the entrance exam before we send the next datastream to Earth.
(She hands him a PADD.)
SEVEN: It's a list of crewmen who can help you study. Lieutenant Torres is extremely well-versed in warp mechanics. Ensign Kim claims to have aced the quantum theory section.
ICHEB: What about Astrometrics?
SEVEN: You know more about Astrometrics than most Starfleet officers.
ICHEB: Still, I'll need someone to review the material with me.
SEVEN: I'll ask Lieutenant Paris to set aside some time.
ICHEB: I'd rather study with you.
SEVEN: You've become too dependent on me. You must learn to rely on others.
ICHEB: And if I don't want to?
SEVEN: What you want is irrelevant.
ICHEB: Why are you acting like this? Is it because you think you're dying?
SEVEN: I am dying. I'm sorry.
ICHEB: You may have given up, but I haven't.
(Icheb spends some time alone in Astrometrics looking at medical scans.)

[Doctor's office]

ICHEB: I know how to save her.
EMH: I'm certainly open to suggestions.
ICHEB: I've been analysing the simulations you performed. They failed because you tried to implement a cortical node from a dead drone.
EMH: That's correct.
ICHEB: What you require is a live drone.
EMH: I've already been through that with Captain Janeway.
ICHEB: My cortical node is operational. I want you to remove it and give it to Seven.
EMH: Absolutely not!
ICHEB: Well, at least review my research. 

[Sickbay]

EMH: It may as well be a suicide note.
ICHEB: I don't agree.
EMH: Well, that's comforting.
ICHEB: You took these scans of me when I left the Collective. By your own estimation I emerged from my maturation chamber before I was fully assimilated. As a result my physiology is less dependent on my implants.
EMH: They still regulate many of your vital functions.
ICHEB: What about my age? I'm younger, so it should be easier for my body to adapt to the loss.
EMH: You're obviously too young to understand the risks involved.
ICHEB: I understand the risks perfectly. If we continue to do nothing, Seven will die.
EMH: And if we proceed with your idea, you could both die.
ICHEB: According to my research, there's an eighty six point nine percent chance that Seven's implants will adapt to my node.
EMH: Eighty-six
ICHEB: Point nine.
EMH: What about you? Without a cortical node, how will you regulate your implants?
ICHEB: You should be able to compensate with genetic resequencing. This isn't suicide, Doctor. I believe it can work. All I ask is that you consider it.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Seven is looking at an image of the Grand Canyon on the screen.)
JANEWAY: Earth's biggest ditch. That's what my father used to call it. We hiked the north rim when I was nine.
SEVEN: It's an impressive geological formation.
JANEWAY: Too dusty. I've always preferred farm country myself.
(Seven changes the image.)
SEVEN: Bloomington, Indiana. Your home town. You've mentioned it on several occasions.
JANEWAY: So, what do you think?
SEVEN: It appears to be a pleasant environment.
JANEWAY: When we get to Earth I'll take you there.
SEVEN: It's more likely this crew will reach Earth without me.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
SEVEN: You refuse to acknowledge the severity of my condition, just as I did at first.
JANEWAY: Are you giving up?
SEVEN: I'm merely accepting reality.
JANEWAY: If I'd accepted reality six years ago, I'd have settled on the first M class planet we came across. Instead, I'm thirty thousand light years closer to Bloomington, Indiana.
SEVEN: Minus several members of your crew.
(Seven displays the list of deceased crewmembers.)
SEVEN: Ensign Marie Kaplan, Ensign Lindsay Ballard, Crewman Timothy Lang.
JANEWAY: Is there a point to this?
SEVEN: Every person on this list died under your command. You accepted their deaths. But I don't believe you'll accept mine.
JANEWAY: That's presumptuous.
SEVEN: I'm not being egotistical. On the contrary, I'm trying to make a point.
JANEWAY: Which is?
SEVEN: All of these crew members came to Voyager with unique personalities, but I've required your constant assistance to develop my individuality.
JANEWAY: And you've come a long way.
SEVEN: But not far enough. I've disappointed you. You feel your task is incomplete. That's why my death will be difficult for you to accept.
JANEWAY: Is that what you think? That you haven't lived up to my expectations?
SEVEN: Clearly, I haven't. But I want you to know that the failure has been mine, not yours.
JANEWAY: You haven't failed, Seven. You've exceeded my expectations. You've become an individual. An extraordinary individual. If I'm having trouble accepting your condition, it's only because I don't want to lose a friend.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the captain. I need to see you and Seven right away.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: It would be a complicated procedure.
EMH: No doubt.
JANEWAY: But you believe it'll work.
EMH: There are significant risks involved to Seven and Icheb, but if you're asking me if it's possible I'd have to say yes.
JANEWAY: What sort of precautions
SEVEN: No matter how many precautions you take, it's not worth the risk to Icheb.
ICHEB: Seven, this could work.
SEVEN: I'm not willing to extend my life at the cost of yours.
ICHEB: You haven't reviewed all the data.
SEVEN: As long as there is any chance you won't survive, the data is irrelevant. I'd like to return to Sickbay now.
EMH: As you wish.  
(Seven and the EMH leave.)
ICHEB: You're the captain. You could order her to do it.
JANEWAY: I have to respect her wishes.
ICHEB: Even if it kills her?
JANEWAY: I want to help her just as much as you do.
ICHEB: If that were true, you wouldn't let her die.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Is there anything I can bring from the Cargo Bay to make you feel more at home?
SEVEN: No, thank you.
EMH: Something from the mess hall? A piece of fruit?
SEVEN: Are you offering me my last meal?
EMH: I. Of course not. Is that what you thought?
SEVEN: I was attempting to lighten the mood.
EMH: Ah, yes. Well done.
ICHEB [OC]: Icheb to the Doctor. Report to Cargo Bay two immediately.
SEVEN: He's persistent.
EMH: Not to worry. I'll make it clear to him that persistence is futile.

[Corridor]

EMH: You were summoned, too?
JANEWAY: Icheb doesn't seem to have grasped the chain of command yet.
EMH: Remind you of anyone we know?

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: Icheb?
(Icheb is in his alcove, twitching.)
EMH: He's disengaged his cortical node.
JANEWAY: How?
ICHEB: My alcove. I programmed it to disconnect my neural relays.
JANEWAY: Can you reconnect them?
EMH: He's locked me out of the controls.
JANEWAY: How could you do this?
ICHEB: It was the only way I could prove to you that it would work.

[Sickbay]

(Janeway and the EMH beam in with Icheb.)
SEVEN: What's wrong with him?
JANEWAY: Icheb decided to perform a little operation on himself.
SEVEN: You have to reconnect his node immediately.
EMH: I intend to.
ICHEB: No. If Seven can refuse treatment, so can I.
EMH: We don't have time for this.
ICHEB: Check your scans. You'll see I'm already adapting.
EMH: Some of your implants have adapted, but not all.
ICHEB: Then apply the resequencing technique I researched.
SEVEN: This debate is pointless. I won't accept the node.
ICHEB: And I won't keep it.
EMH: Someone had better use the damn thing. If it stays disconnected much longer it won't do either of you any good.
SEVEN: You're acting like a child.
ICHEB: I'm trying to save your life.
SEVEN: Only because you've grown too dependent on me.
ICHEB: You think I need to learn to rely on other people?
SEVEN: Yes.
ICHEB: What about you? You've refused to rely on a single member of this crew. You hid your condition from the rest of us, you deactivated the Doctor, and now you're rejecting my help. You're the one who needs to rely on others. Isn't that what people on this ship do? They help each other?
JANEWAY: Whenever we can.
ICHEB: If the Captain were dying, you'd risk your life to save her, wouldn't you? And when you respond to a distress call, you're risking the life of everyone on this ship to respond to the aid of strangers.
JANEWAY: He's right.
SEVEN: Captain, he's just a child.
JANEWAY: I don't think he is. Not anymore.
SEVEN: Doctor!
EMH: Don't look at me.
ICHEB: Please, just let us help you.
(So a short time later, the EMH is performing a living donor transplant, with Paris and Janeway assisting.)
EMH: Let's begin.
(He removes Icheb's cortical node and Paris closes that wound. Then he removes Seven's stuttering node and replaces it with Icheb's functioning one.)

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven is in her alcove. The EMH gives her a hypo then scans her as she wakes.)
JANEWAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: How long have I been regenerating?
EMH: Six days. We needed to make sure your implants had completely adapted to the new node.
JANEWAY: The good news is, they have.
SEVEN: Icheb?

[Sickbay]

(Biomedical scan 808 tells the story.)
EMH: His road to recovery has been a little bumpier than yours.
SEVEN: Has he suffered any permanent damage?
EMH: I don't think so. He's been experiencing some pain, but I believe it's temporary.
SEVEN: Pain I caused him.
EMH: Pain he was willing to endure.
(The EMH wakes Icheb.)
ICHEB: You've recovered.
SEVEN: I expect the same from you.
ICHEB: The Doctor wants to keep me here another week, but I'm sure I'll be back on my feet in half that time.
SEVEN: I suggest you get as much rest as you can. You're going to need it.
ICHEB: Why?
SEVEN: I've decided to help you prepare for the Astrometrics portion of the Academy exam. You can expect a rigorous and gruelling schedule.
(A tear rolls down her cheek.)
ICHEB: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
ICHEB: Your ocular implant. It's malfunctioning again.
(The EMH scans her.)
EMH: Actually, it's functioning perfectly.


S7 E3
Drive
Stardate: 54058.6
Original Airdate: 18 Oct 2000

[Delta Flyer]
(Paris is piloting the Flyer through a very dense asteroid field.)
(PARIS: What's the matter, Harry? You look a little pale.
KIM: I volunteered for a test flight, not a suicide mission.
PARIS: How can we put the new Delta Flyer through her paces without taking a few risks?
KIM: Another risk like that and we'll have to rebuild her all over again. There's a vessel coming up fast off our starboard beam.
PARIS: Shields.
KIM: Range fifty kilometres. Ten. It's pulling alongside.
PARIS: Wow, nice ship.
KIM: It's scanning us.
PARIS: This is Lieutenant Tom Paris. Please identify yourself.
IRINA [OC]: Vectored exhaust ports, accelerated driver coils. Your vessel must be fast.
PARIS: Gets us where we want to go.
IRINA [OC]: Check your scanners. You'll see a comet on the other side of the asteroid field. I wonder which of our ships could get there first?
PARIS: Sounds like a challenge.
IRINA [OC]: Are you going to accept?
KIM: We are not going to race her.
PARIS: This is a test flight, right?
KIM: Yeah, but
PARIS: What better way to test the new ship than to see how it stands up to a little competition? We're ready over here. Shall I count to three?
(Irina accelerates away.)
PARIS: Guess not. She's a lot more manoeuvrable than we are.
KIM: Not that I'm endorsing this misguided exercise, but maybe we can even the odds. New impulse thrusters.
PARIS: Now that's the spirit, Harry.
(A pair of thrusters open up at the rear of the Flyer.)
KIM: We're catching up. A hundred metres, fifty.
PARIS: Bring the backup generators online and reroute power to the thrusters.
(Irina's ship clips an asteroid and her starboard nacelle starts venting.)
PARIS: And it's the Delta Flyer by a nose.
KIM: Something's wrong with her ship. The cabin's filling up with nyocene gas.
PARIS: Stand by for emergency transport.
(A humanoid female with pointed ears and tight leather trousers is beamed aboard, coughing.)
KIM: Are you all right?
IRINA: I think so.
KIM: I told you this wasn't a good idea.
IRINA: Does that mean you're afraid to try again?
PARIS: Yeah, Harry, you afraid?
KIM: No, of course not. It's just that your ship is in no shape for a rematch.
IRINA: My power transformer overloaded.
KIM: I bet we could find you a spare back on Voyager. We were about to head back anyway. Right, Tom?
PARIS: Whatever you say, Ensign Eager.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I've been looking forward to my holodeck time all week. Why can't you borrow three hours from someone else?
TORRES: Yours are the last piece to the puzzle. Tom and I have finally managed to get a weekend off together. I've been trading favours with members so that we could get the holodeck to ourselves.
EMH: A romantic getaway.
TORRES: Well, that's the idea, yes.
EMH: Well, ordinarily I wouldn't hesitate to oblige but I've been looking forward to indulging myself in a new hobby. Something human doctors have been enjoying for centuries.
(He picks up a golf club and ball.)
EMH: I've already booked a tee time.
TORRES: Well, if your tee time is more important than our happiness. Our first chance to be alone in months.
EMH: Fine. Take my three hours.
TORRES: Thank you.
EMH: So, what programme are you planning to run?
TORRES: Something new, called Gedi Prime.
EMH: I've heard of that. The vacation paradise that makes Risa look like a tourist trap.
TORRES Endless kilometres of crystalline beaches, mood reefs, bioluminescent waterfalls.
EMH: And a championship golf course, if I'm not mistaken. Why don't I just join you?
TORRES: Somehow I don't think that would add to the mood.
EMH: Don't be so sure. You haven't seen me in a bathing suit.

[Irina's ship]

(Safely in Voyager's shuttlebay, repairs are underway.)
IRINA: Could you hand me the veridium injector.
KIM|: Veridium injector. Er, let's see.
IRINA: The one with the long handle.
KIM: Of course.
(He sits in the co-pilot's seat.)
KIM: Comfortable.
IRINA: My co-pilot thinks so, too.
KIM: Co-pilot?
IRINA: I was on my way to meet him when I ran into you.
KIM: So, tell me more about where you're from.
IRINA: It's a small trinary system about half a parsec from here.
KIM: Three suns? Must make for some long days.
IRINA: Are you always this inquisitive?
KIM: That depends on who I'm talking to.
PARIS: Your new power transformer is installed and ready to go.
IRINA: Thanks.
PARIS: Your impulse drive is a real beauty.
IRINA: I designed it myself.
PARIS: But I couldn't help noticing your warp system seems so rudimentary.
IRINA: Warp's fine if you like going fast in a straight line. But to me that's just physics, not flying.
KIM: I guess it's just a matter of taste.
IRINA: Anyway, for the kind of flying I'm here for, warp is not a factor. The race course is only two billion kilometres long.
PARIS: Race course?
KIM: What kind of race course?

[Briefing room]

PARIS: The Antarian Trans-Stellar Rally. Three segments covering two point three billion kilometres.
KIM: With obstacles ranging from dwarf star clusters to K class anomalies.
PARIS: Two man crews and most importantly, each ship is limited to sub-light speeds. It is the ultimate test of ship design and piloting skills
TUVOK: Not to mention a serious drain on Voyager's resources. You're suggesting we reassign fifteen crewmen to modify the Delta Flyer.
PARIS: The race has very specific guidelines.
CHAKOTAY: All the ships have to use enriched deuterium fuel. The Delta Flyer's not equipped for that.
KIM: Irina agreed to lend us a fuel converter.
PARIS: Captain, this race is more than just a sporting event. Until recently this region was a war zone. Four different species fought for nearly a century to control it.
KIM: Now, for the first time, they're competing peacefully to commemorate the new treaty that ended the war.
PARIS: This race embodies everything the Federation values. Peaceful coexistence, free exchange of ideas
JANEWAY: I think it's a great idea.
PARIS: You do?
TUVOK: You do?
JANEWAY: Absolutely. This competition is just the sort of break we need. It would give us the chance to make some friends, and allow the crew a little R and R. Request granted.
PARIS: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: One thing, gentleman. Now that we're in this race, we're in it to win. After all, Starfleet's honour is at stake.
PARIS: Don't worry, it's in good hands.

[Sickbay]

(The Sickbay doors open and a flashing green golf ball rolls out. Paris picks it up. Inside, the EMH is practising his putting.)
PARIS: A little tip, Doc. This game was not meant to be played indoors.
EMH: Here to rub salt in the wound?
PARIS: I beg your pardon?
EMH: I planned to be putting the greens at Saint Andrews. Instead I'm putting into beakers in Sickbay, thanks to you.
PARIS: Me?
EMH: Oh, don't be coy. I've already approved your time off.
PARIS: The Captain's told you about the race already?
EMH: What race? I was referring to your romantic getaway.
PARIS: Oh, no.
EMH: Don't tell me you forgot.
PARIS: Do me a favour Doc. Keep a lock on my biosigns.
EMH: What for?
PARIS: Because in about five minutes there may be a medical emergency in Engineering.
(Paris leaves.)
EMH: Maybe I can get that tee time back.
(He finally gets a ball into the beaker.)

[Engineering]

PARIS: Hi.
TORRES: You're early.
(She drags him to a quiet corner for a kiss.)
TORRES: You packed?
PARIS: Not yet. Actually, there might be a little problem.
TORRES: Problem?
PARIS: I have the chance to pilot the Flyer in a race. A really unique race and the captain thinks it's a great idea, and I guess I got so excited I forgot about our plans. But I don't have to do it. The captain would understand.
TORRES: It's all right.
PARIS: No, no. I should have remembered. This just seemed like such an amazing opportunity. Pilots from all over
TORRES: I said it's okay.
PARIS: Really?
TORRES: The holodeck will always be here. This race won't.
PARIS: I do not deserve you.
TORRES: You're right about that.
PARIS: So, we'll plan this vacation for another time.
TORRES: Sure.
PARIS: I'm going to make this up to you, I promise.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Late night? Can I get you anything?
TORRES: No, thanks.
NEELIX: Oh, ah, ow. oo.
TORRES: Are you okay?
NEELIX: Oh, my feet. Ow. I haven't had a chance to sit down all day.
TORRES: If you're thinking of cheering me up, don't bother.
NEELIX: Who, me? Never.
TORRES: And by the way, you can have your holodeck time back.
NEELIX: What about your weekend with Tom?
TORRES: He just cancelled it.
NEELIX: Does he have any idea how much planning it took?
TORRES: No. And you're not going to tell him, either. He just entered this big race, and he's really excited and, I don't want to spoil it for him.
NEELIX: I'm sure if you tell him how important this weekend was to you, he'll reconsider.
TORRES: Probably. But he should be able to do what makes him happy.
NEELIX: What about what makes you happy?
TORRES: It's time I faced facts, Neelix. Tom and I just don't belong together.
NEELIX: Then you're not in love with him anymore?
TORRES: I didn't say that.
NEELIX: B'Elanna, if you still love each other
TORRES: Maybe that isn't enough.
NEELIX: Call me a hopeless romantic, but I still think it is.
TORRES: There's a Klingon phrase my grandmother used to use. Mok'tah. It means bad match. That's what Tom and I are. I just hate that it's taken me three years to realise it.
NEELIX: If you're really such a mok'tah, it must have been an awful three years.
TORRES: No. Tom is a great guy. We've had a lot of fun together. And that seems to be enough for him. But not for me.
NEELIX: Why aren't you saying all this to Tom?
TORRES: I plan to. After the race.
NEELIX: By which time, he'll have already disappointed you again. I may not know as much about Klingon tradition as your grandmother, but somehow, keeping Tom in the dark doesn't seem very honourable. My feet are feeling better. I should go back to work.

Captain's log, stardate 54058.6. Our request to enter the Delta Flyer into the rally has been accepted. I'm meeting with the race coordinator, Ambassador O'Zaal, to work out the details.

[Ready room]

O'ZAAL: We have teams that have travelled quite a distance, Captain, but none from as far as the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: We're always willing to go that extra light year for a good cause.
O'ZAAL: Well, your entrance petition seems to be in order. The Delta Flyer meets our guidelines. Now all you have to do is win.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me the other teams aren't going to make that too easy.
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to the captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Commander.
TUVOK [OC]: There is an incoming transmission for the Ambassador.
JANEWAY: Route it here.
O'ZAAL: I asked not to be disturbed.
ASSISTANT [on monitor]: I'm sorry, but the Aksani are threatening to withdraw unless they're allowed to host the post-race ceremony.
O'ZAAL: Did you explain that we've already promised that to the Chessu.
ASSISTANT [on monitor]: Yes. They said that was unacceptable.
O'ZAAL: Arrange for another meeting. I'll have to find some way of appeasing them. Well, I hope the race you just entered doesn't end before it begins.
JANEWAY: It's that serious?
O'ZAAL: The peace is still very fragile. Every decision I make, no matter how trivial, is looked upon as symbolic.
JANEWAY: So, every time you make a concession to one participant
O'ZAAL: Another is offended, yes.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can help.
O'ZAAL: That would be wonderful, but how?
JANEWAY: By providing neutral ground for the pre- and post-race activities. Since we've never taken sides in your conflict, you couldn't be accused of showing favouritism.
O'ZAAL: If your racing skills are as sharp as your diplomatic instincts, the other teams won't have a chance.

[Mess hall]

The pre-race get-together is going with a swing. Paris and Kim are wearing new uniforms with grey and black vertical panels and white shoulders.)
IRINA: There's someone to watch out for.
PARIS: What's his story?
IRINA: His name is Assan. He was a fighter pilot. One of the most ruthless.
KIM: Where you going?
PARIS: A little personal reconnaissance. We are the hosts. Lieutenant Tom Paris. Welcome aboard.
(The reptiloid in blue leathers does not turn around.)
PARIS: Could I get you something? A drink? Something to eat? A tour of the ship?
ASSAN: Were you assigned to serve me?
PARIS: Er, not exactly.
ASSAN: Are we friends?
PARIS: I guess not.
ASSAN: Then you must be one of those pilots who believes in the fellowship of combat.
PARIS: Correct me if I'm wrong but, I thought this was a friendly race, not a battle.
ASSAN: If that's what you believe, then you've already lost.
PARIS: Well, nice chatting with you.
KIM: Learn anything?
PARIS: Yeah. I should leave the hosting to Neelix.
(A man in tight leather trousers enters.)
IRINA: Joxom!
KIM: Who?
IRINA: My co-pilot.
JOXOM: Irina. Hi.
(Joxom hugs her.)
PARIS: Looks like they're good friends.
KIM: They're team-mates.
PARIS: Close personal team-mates.
KIM: Oh, it was nice while it lasted.
PARIS: Come on.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Seven, I need to run a diagnostic on the lateral sensor array.
SEVEN: As soon as I'm finished.
TORRES: With what?
SEVEN: Plotting the most efficient course for the first segment of the rally.
TORRES: Seems like the entire crew has come down with race fever.
SEVEN: Maybe you could persuade the Doctor to develop a vaccine.
TORRES: I'm surprised you're putting time into this.
SEVEN: Initially I did find the activity irrelevant. But then I realised that it's important for the crew's morale, and for my relationship with Lieutenant Paris.
TORRES: Your relationship with Lieutenant Paris.
SEVEN: I was speaking professionally. I often work with him on navigational problems. He can be an erratic individual, but he's also a very competent officer and clearly a skilled pilot.
TORRES: It's the erratic individual that takes getting used to.
SEVEN: No doubt. But I've learned that if I embrace some of his interests, support him in his personal goals, we're able to function more efficiently as crewmates.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Harry, where have you been?
TORRES: Say Q'apla!
(Torres takes photograph of Paris as he turns.)
TORRES: It means success. I just wanted to capture the moment. Not to mention that cute bewildered expression.
PARIS: What are you doing in that flight suit?
TORRES: There's been a change of plans. I'm your new co-pilot.
PARIS: Look, I don't have time for practical jokes.
TORRES: Neither do I. Ready to bring that impulse drive online?
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Okay. I was upset that you cancelled our weekend. But then I realised, why should we spend this time apart when we can be together doing something you love?
PARIS: What about Harry?
TORRES: I assigned him to a level five diagnostic in Engineering.
PARIS: Oh, that's terrible.
TORRES: I'm just kidding. I told him how hard it was for us to get time together and he understood. Anyway, the way I see it, you're trading an Ensign for a Chief Engineer.
PARIS: Well, you don't have to convince me. I couldn't ask for a better co-pilot. Now just remember, we're not on vacation. The point is to win.
TORRES: And you know how much I hate to lose.
PARIS: Thrusters online. Opening shuttlebay doors.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The racers are moving into position.
JANEWAY: Ambassador.
O'ZAAL: Welcome to the first running of the Antarian Trans-Stellar Rally. This moment marks a hopeful point

[Delta Flyer]

O'ZAAL [OC]: In our shared history. A chance to put aside old animosities and come together

[Irina's ship]

O'ZAAL [OC]: In a spirit of peace and friendly competition.

[Assan's ship]

O'ZAAL [OC]: Good luck to all of you. Prepare for the starting signal.

[Bridge]

O'ZAAL: Captain, the honour is yours.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, fire.
(A low-yield photon torpedo flares gently as the starting signal, and the competitors zoom away past the windows of the mess hall.)

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: We've passed two more ships. Three still ahead of us.
PARIS: How's my impulse engine?
TORRES: Hot but stable, thanks to the new fuel converter.
(A ship passes them so closely they rock.)
TORRES: That was the number eight ship.
PARIS: Assan.
TORRES: Whoever it is just grazed our shields. Port thrusters are offline.
PARIS: Compensating. That was an old trick. Back at the Academy we used to call that scraping.
TORRES: Assan just almost scraped us out of the race.
PARIS: How are we doing on time?
TORRES: Twenty seconds to the third marker. Assan's already rounding it, thanks to his little tactic.
PARIS: It's a long race. We'll catch him.

[Astrometrics lab]

NEELIX: How's our team doing?
SEVEN: I announced the Delta Flyer's progress over the comm. eleven minutes ago.
NEELIX: In a race like this, eleven minutes can be an eternity.
SEVEN: The Delta Flyer is in fourth position, having completed sixty two percent of the course. The Aksani vessel is in third position, having completed sixty eight percent of the course.
NEELIX: You don't make it sound very exciting.
SEVEN: I'm relaying the relevant information.
NEELIX: It's all in the delivery. Do you mind? Attention, all hands. Stand by for a race update. With only fifty eight million kilometres left od the first segment, the Aksani, Imhotep and Terrellian ships are still battling for the lead. Wait, the number eight ship just cut off the number three in the Darla system. Now three's changing course using the gravity from a gas giant to boost its speed. It's making up for lost ground.
(Janeway and Kim have entered.)
JANEWAY: Sounds like quite a race.
SEVEN: Apparently, it's all in the delivery.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: So much for the Aksani. Now it's just down to Irina and Assan.
TORRES: In a few minutes they'll just be echoes in our aft scanners.
PARIS: Well, we've still got the Mobius Inversion coming up.
TORRES: The what?
PARIS: Tell me you read the course manual.
TORRES: I skimmed it. More or less.
PARIS: Oh, great.
TORRES: So, what exactly is this Mobius whatever?
PARIS: Take a look. It covers the entire last third of the course. Level six subspace distortions, gravimetric shears. Just think of it as a little wormhole with a big attitude.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Now packed with keen racer watchers.)
NEELIX: The Terrellian and Imhotep ships are still in the lead, the Delta Flyer trailing by a few seconds. Meanwhile, the two Chessu ships are continuing to advance, claiming fourth and fifth position.
TUVOK: My weekly security report.
JANEWAY: I'll read it later.
TUVOK: There are a few matters we should discuss.
CHAKOTAY: She said later, Tuvok.
NEELIX: Something's wrong. They're disappearing.
SEVEN: Radiation from the Mobius Inversion is blocking our sensors.
TUVOK: How will we track their progress?
CHAKOTAY: We can't, not until they emerge from the other side of the anomaly.
JANEWAY: Want to talk about that report now, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Later, if that's permissible.

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: Fifty metres, forty. We can get through.
PARIS: We're too close to each other.
TORRES: I'm reversing our deflector polarity. It'll repel their shields. Why wait for an opening when you can make one?
PARIS: No, it's too risky.
TORRES: Too risky? That doesn't sound like the Tom Paris I know.
PARIS: What are you doing?
TORRES: Deploying auxiliary thrusters. We'll need the extra manoeuvring power to get through the gap.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Just steer the ship.
(The extra thrust pushes them back into their seats. The Flyer scrapes between the two ships.)

[Astrometrics lab]

NEELIX: It's them. It's the Delta Flyer. They're in the lead. They're pulling away!

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: We did it.
PARIS: You should have waited.
TORRES: I saw a chance and I took it.
PARIS: I'm the pilot. That means I do the flying.
O'ZAAL [OC]: Attention all racers. There's been an accident. Stay in order and shut down your engines.

[Sickbay]

(Joxom is on a biobed.)
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: His condition's stabilising. I should be able to start dermal regeneration in a few hours.
IRINA: This was Assan's fault.
O'ZAAL: Why?
IRINA: He collided with me so many times my shield generator overloaded. Joxom's console exploded. He's lucky he's alive.

[Briefing room]

ASSAN: If I'm guilty of anything, it's of coming in second. A situation I'll remedy in the next leg.
O'ZAAL: You're doing a poor job of defending yourself.
TORRES: We may have had something to do with this too. We grazed both of their shields while in the anomaly.
JANEWAY: Intentionally?
PARIS: It was a tight course. Everyone was flying very aggressively.
IRINA: Your team is not responsible, Captain. My generators were already overloading when they made contact.
TUVOK: Perhaps none of you is to blame. I found this interfaced with her ship's shield generator. I ran an analysis. It's a phase inverter, designed to cause a system overload.
JANEWAY: Oh, it's hard to believe someone would go this far just to knock a competitor out of the race?
O'ZAAL: This may be more than a simple case of cheating, Captain. I think someone's trying to end the peace.
JANEWAY: Maybe I'm missing something, but we're talking about a single act of sabotage. How does that threaten your treaty?
O'ZAAL: By itself it wouldn't. But we received several threats of a more serious nature.
TUVOK: From whom?
O'ZAAL: Groups opposed to the alliance. Arms dealers, isolationists, political extremists. Up until now I wasn't sure how seriously to take them.
TUVOK: Clearly they pose a security threat.
O'ZAAL: Yes, yes. We've done everything we could to protect the races, but that may not be enough. I don't want to risk any more lives. We should cancel the race, or at least postpone i,t until we can guarantee everyone's safety.
IRINA: No. If we stop now we'll be letting these extremists win.
ASSAN: She's right.
O'ZAAL: Very well, then. If that's the consensus, we'll resume tomorrow as scheduled. Of course, Captain, if you decide to withdraw, we'd understand.
JANEWAY: The last time I checked, I believe we were winning.

[Corridor]

KIM: There you are. Congratulations on taking the lead.
PARIS: Thanks.
KIM: Of course, you're not going to win.
TORRES: Why is that?
KIM: Because we are. (to Irina) You're looking at your new co-pilot. I checked with one of the race officials. It's perfectly legal. And it's a chance for both of us to get back in the race.
IRINA: I appreciate the gesture, but my ship's damaged.
PARIS: You don't know our Harry. Once he sets his mind on something
TORRES: He'll not only fix your ship, he'll polish the bulkheads.
KIM: How can you turn me down?
IRINA: Apparently I can't.

[Delta Flyer]

(In the shuttlebay, next to Irina's ship.)
PARIS: Come on, you can say it.
TORRES: It's embarrassing.
PARIS: I just want to make sure we're clear on what we're doing.
TORRES: Right at the light, then readjust my sight.
PARIS: Meaning?
TORRES: Come about eighty six degrees at the red giant then recalibrate sensors to compensate for photonic interference.
PARIS: Right. Next?
TORRES: Do I really have to spend my morning reciting nursery rhymes?
PARIS: It got me through the Academy.
TORRES: You were expelled.
PARIS: Okay. Repeat after me. I am not the pilot. I will not attempt to fly this ship.
TORRES: That one doesn't even rhyme.
KIM: Anyone home?
PARIS: Well, if it isn't our competition.
TORRES: Here to spy on us?
KIM: I just stopped by to borrow a hyperspanner.
PARIS: Looks like you didn't get much sleep.
KIM: Irina and I were up all night.
PARIS: Oh, really?
KIM: Making repairs. To be honest, I can't remember the last time I had so much fun. She's funny, smart. We get along without trying. I'm going to ask her if she wants to spend some time on Voyager after the race.
PARIS: What about Joxom?
KIM: Turns out they're just team-mates. I know what you're going to say
PARIS: No, no. Actually, I was just going to congratulate you. She's not a Borg, she's not a hologram, and she's not dead. Looks like you might have finally found yourself the perfect woman.
O'ZAAL [OC]: All teams report to your ships. The race will resume in thirty minutes.
KIM: See you on the course.

[Bridge]

NEELIX [OC]: Attention, all hands. Stand by for another race update. After fighting off a formidable challenge from the Terrellian team, the Delta Flyer has managed to hold onto it's lead going into the third and final segment.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Approaching the pulsars.
TORRES: Straight through the gate.
PARIS: Then remodulate.
TORRES: Harry sure had that glow, didn't he?
PARIS: What glow?
TORRES: You know, that look you get when you first meet someone.
PARIS: Yeah, his cheeks were a little redder than usual.
TORRES: We're through the pulsars. Harry and Irina are right behind us.
PARIS: Ease up off the thrusters now. I want to conserve some fuel for the final leg.
TORRES: If circumstances were right they might even have a future together.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: Harry and Irina.
PARIS: They just met. It's a little early to be planning a wedding.
TORRES: No, I just meant that some people just fit together without having to work at it. And other people, no matter how much they try
PARIS: Are we talking about them or us?
TORRES: What? No, I didn't mean.
PARIS: If something's bothering you, let's talk about it.
TORRES: We should concentrate on the race.
PARIS: Maybe Harry and Irina aren't such a great team after all. They're falling behind.

[Irina's ship]

KIM: I'm reading malfunctions in the EPS relays. But we double-checked all of them last night.
IRINA: We must have missed something. At this rate, we're going to be out of the race in a couple of minutes.
KIM: I think I can reroute power through the impulse manifolds.
IRINA: No!
KIM: Why not?
IRINA: It could damage the reactor coils.
KIM: What do the reactor coils have to do with the impulse manifolds?
IRINA: These systems are different than what you're used to.
KIM: You do want to win, don't you?
IRINA: Of course I do.
KIM: It just seems like every time I make a suggestion, you find a reason to reject it.
IRINA: I'm more familiar with my ship than you are.
KIM: Now what?
IRINA: I think it's the injector ports.
KIM: No, it's an overload in my console!
(Kim dives out of the way just in time.)
KIM: That's the second time your co-pilot's console exploded. Quite a coincidence.
(Irina points a gun at him.)
IRINA: I'm sorry, Harry. I really am.
KIM: You sabotaged your own ship. Twice. Why are you trying so hard to get out of this race?
(He slaps a control and makes the ship jolt. She loses her balance and he wrestles the gun off her.)
KIM: What the hell is going on? Sit down and hold still! All right, if you won't talk to me, maybe you'll talk to Antarian Security. You disabled the comm. system. We'll just wait. Someone'll come along eventually.

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: We're past the last marker. Time to deploy the thrusters?
PARIS: Whatever you say.
TORRES: What happened to I'm the pilot?
PARIS: That really bothered you, didn't it? It's why you think we don't fit together as well as Harry and Irina?
TORRES: Could we talk about this later? Assan is gaining on us.
PARIS: Well then, I guess you'd better deploy the thrusters.
TORRES: Thrusters deployed. This isn't about the race anymore, is it?
PARIS: You tell me.

[Irina's ship]

IRINA: If we're going to just sit here, we might as well see who's winning.
KIM: You're not exactly in a position to be making requests.
IRINA: Admit it, Harry. You're curious too.
KIM: The Delta Flyer is still in the lead.
IRINA: Good for them.

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: I thought if we could do this one thing together, something you cared about, that it might help our relationship.
PARIS: I didn't know it needed help.
TORRES: That's part of the problem.
PARIS: What's the rest?
TORRES: You know the rest.
PARIS: So we scrape shields occasionally. It keeps things interesting.
TORRES: Maybe interesting isn't enough for me. What are you doing?
(Paris has turned off the Flyer's engines.)

[Irina's ship]

KIM: They're stopping. They're dead in the water.
(Irina starts to stand.)
KIM: Ah, ah, ah.
(She sits again.)
IRINA: How far from the finish line?
KIM: Less than a million kilometres.

[Delta Flyer]

(The Flyer shakes as a ship roars overhead.)
TORRES: That was Assan. Why are we just sitting here?
PARIS: If we've got a problem, we're going to resolve it right here, right now.

[Irina's ship]

KIM: You done everything possible to take yourself out of the race, and now you seem worried that the Delta Flyer won't reach the finish line. I'm counting more than a dozen ships there. Spectators, officials.
IRINA: All congregated in the name of peace. Touching, isn't it?
KIM: You've planned some sort of attack. There are hundreds of innocent people there. How can you do that?
IRINA: Not everyone is as comfortable mixing with other species as you are, Harry. Some of us believe it was better when we were separate.

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: Hey, I never asked you to give up this race, or anything else that you care about. I never asked you to stop being yourself.
PARIS: The only self that I want to be is the guy you're in love with.
TORRES: Wow. I didn't know you felt that way.
PARIS: How can you say that?
TORRES: Well, you always seem to have other priorities.
PARIS: I'm showing you my priorities right now.

[Irina's ship]

KIM: The Delta Flyer wouldn't even be in this race if you hadn't told us about it. You gave us the fuel converter so we could qualify. The fuel converter. That's why you're so concerned about Tom and B'Elanna's crossing the finish line. What'd you do to it? Rig it to explode?

[Delta Flyer]

TORRES: How come you never talked to me about this before?
PARIS: Well, you've got that tough Klingon exterior. And er, I didn't think you liked the mushy stuff.
TORRES: Do I look that tough right now?
PARIS: Does that mean you're in the mood for some mushy stuff?
TORRES: Maybe.
PARIS: Exactly what kind of mush are we talking about?
TORRES: You tell me.
PARIS: Well, there's, um, kissy stuff.
TORRES: That was nice.
PARIS: And there's the you're the most important person in the world to me.
TORRES: I like that one, too.
PARIS: And there's the happily ever after.
TORRES: How does that one work?
PARIS: Well, traditionally it requires a proposal.
TORRES: We're being scanned by some kind of modulating pulse. It's from Irina's ship.
PARIS: They must be wondering why we stopped.
TORRES: There's something odd about the amplitude.
PARIS: Wait a minute. Dit dit dah. That's Morse code. Harry and I use it in the Captain Proton holoprogramme.
TORRES: What's it saying?
PARIS: Fuel converter rigged. Eject. What does he mean by rigged?
TORRES: The converter's leaking veridium isotopes.
PARIS: Why didn't the computer warn us?
TORRES: The online sensors have been tampered with.
PARIS: Can you contain the leak?
TORRES: Too late. The veridium is already reacting with the warp plasma.
PARIS: That'll cause a warp core breach.
TORRES: In less than a minute.
PARIS: Then do what Harry said. Eject the converter.
TORRES: It's too late. I have to eject the core.
PARIS: Here? We'll never survive the blast. Neither will anyone else within a million kilometres.

[Irina's ship]

IRINA: They're moving again.
KIM: Away from the finish line.

[Delta Flyer]

COMPUTER: Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
TORRES: Where are we going?
PARIS: A J Class nebula filled with ionised gas. Should contain the explosion.
TORRES: I can't get the ejection subroutines online.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in twenty seconds.
PARIS: So, what's your answer?
TORRES: My answer?
PARIS: Will you marry me?
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in fifteen seconds.
TORRES: You're proposing now?
PARIS: It's as good a time as any.
TORRES: Subroutines back online.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in ten seconds, nine, eight.
(The warp core drops out of the back of the Flyer.)
TORRES: Clear!
COMPUTER: Four.
TORRES: Go!
COMPUTER: Three.
(The core explodes in the nebula, rocking the Flyer.)

[Mess hall]

(Assan zips through the finishing line.)
JANEWAY: Damn.
O'ZAAL: I'm sorry your team didn't win, Captain.
(Voyager shakes slightly from the explosion.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.
TUVOK: That was a shock wave from an antimatter explosion approximately one point two million kilometres from here.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.

[Delta Flyer]

(Torres and Paris wake up lying on the deck.)
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I guess we lost.
PARIS: That depends.
TORRES: On what?
PARIS: On how you answer my question.
TORRES: I thought you only asked it because we were about to explode.
PARIS: Well, we're still alive and I'm still asking.
TORRES: How come you never asked me before?
PARIS: How come you're still avoiding the question?
TORRES: I'm thinking.
PARIS: Think faster.
TORRES: Why? You going to withdraw the question?
PARIS: No, but I might start to beg. It could get embarrassing.

Captain's log, supplemental. The Antarians have invited us to participate in the post-race festivities, which has allowed me to give two of my senior officers time off for a well-deserved romantic getaway. The Delta Flyer still needs a new warp core, but I don't think they're in a hurry to get anywhere.

[Delta Flyer]

(Two glasses of champagne are poured out.)
PARIS: To the winners. B'Elanna Paris. That has a nice ring to it.
TORRES: Thanks, but I already have a ring. Anyway, I kind of like the sound of Tom Torres.
PARIS: I hope you're kidding.
TORRES: Hey, it is the twenty fourth century.
(They kiss. The Delta Flyer glides away, with 'Just Married' painted on the stern and trailing strings of cargo canisters.)


S7 E4
Repression
Stardate: 54090.4
Original Airdate: 25 October 2000

[Teero's room]
(There is a blueprint of Voyager hanging up. A Bajoran man looks at it then turns to his desk computer.)
TEERO: The Prophets sing, this is a holy time. B'tanay, the time of awakening. Return to that dark place from which all life springs. A primal energy charges your blood, an energy of rebirth. The mind awakens and focuses on its task. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
(He has the crew manifest of the Val Jean on his screen, a Maquis Raider. Torres, Chakotay, Ann somebody then Tuvok.)

[Corridor]

Paris and Torres are in casual clothes.)
TORRES: Fresh flowers? An afternoon on the holodeck? It almost feels like we're dating again.
PARIS: The secret to a lasting marriage. Keep the romance alive.
TORRES: I'm not complaining.

[Holodeck - cinema]

(A long room with a screen at one end and rows of seats. There are some people already seated. Paris has acquired a tray with a box of popcorn and some drinks.)
TORRES: Lecture hall?
PARIS: Guess again.
TORRES: Opera house? Not another one of the Doctor's performances.
PARIS: This is a movie house. This is the Old Palace Theatre in Chicago, built in 1932. Look at the detail on that crown moulding.
TORRES: It doesn't look very functional.
PARIS: This place isn't about function, it's about fantasy.
(Torres steps on something sticky.)
PARIS: Chewing gum.
TORRES: There is such a thing as too much authenticity.
PARIS: Attention to detail. That's what makes it fun.
(They sit.)
TORRES: Protective lenses?
PARIS: These will make the images on the screen appear three-dimensional.
TORRES: Let me get this straight. You've gone to all this trouble to programme a three-dimensional environment that projects a two-dimensional image, and now you're asking me to wear these to make it look three-dimensional again?
PARIS: Great, isn't it?
(The lights go down and film starts - Revenge of the Creature. Paris puts his arm along the back of Torres' seat.)
TORRES: Crick in your neck?
PARIS: People didn't go to the movies just for the movies, you know.
TORRES: Really? What did they go for?
PARIS: I'll try to demonstrate.
(They smooch.)
TORRES: I can see why this was so popular.
WOMAN: Shush!
TORRES: Maybe this would be more fun if we were alone.
PARIS: Computer, delete audience.
(One person remains.)
PARIS: Who's that in the front row? Must be a glitch.
TORRES: No, That's Tabor.
FILM: This is an emergency! The Gill Man has escaped! Please, clear the oceanarium! Get out, everybody!
(They go to the front row,)
PARIS: You okay?
(Tabor, a Bajoran, is just staring upwards.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: He appears to be in a coma, but I'm reading unusual synaptic activity.
CHAKOTAY: What happened to him?
EMH: I don't know. I'd like to know what he's been doing the last few weeks. Where he's worked, away missions.
CHAKOTAY: I'll access his duty roster.

[Holodeck - cinema]

(Meanwhile, the investigation is underway at the crime scene. Tuvok hold up a pair of 3D glasses.)
TUVOK: Was Ensign Tabor wearing these when he was found?
TORRES: No, they were on the floor next to him.
PARIS: I don't think they cause comas.
TUVOK: Lights strobing at certain frequencies have been known to induce seizures. We should analyse the optical properties of this movie. When was the last time you spoke with Mister Tabor?
PARIS: About ten, fifteen minutes before B'Elanna and I got here. He called to say the programme was up and running.
TORRES: Funny.
TUVOK: Lieutenant?
TORRES: When we were in the Maquis together, we used to joke that Tabor must have had his own personal forcefield. He went through a dozen firefights without even getting his clothes dirty.
TUVOK: He's still alive. Perhaps his forcefield is holding.
KIM: Commander, I've reviewed the sensor logs for the four hours Tabor was in here. All systems were operating normally, safeties were online.
TUVOK: Run a level five diagnostic on the logs.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Tuvok. Report to Sickbay.
TUVOK: On my way.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've found several microfractures in his cranium. They're minor, but the pattern suggests he suffered a trauma of some sort. There's also evidence of subdermal contusions along his right shoulder.
CHAKOTAY: This man was attacked.
JANEWAY: It's possible that whoever did this is still on board. Go to Yellow alert. Tuvok, I'm putting you in charge of the investigation.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Outside Tabor's quarters]

TUVOK: Security override Tuvok pi alpha.

[Tabor's quarters]

(A woman is there.)
JOR: Commander.
TUVOK: Crewman Jor. If I'm not mistaken, your quarters are on deck four.
JOR: I heard what happened to Tabor. I was looking for a book to bring to him.
TUVOK: I'm afraid he's in no condition to read.
JOR: I was going to read to him. I've heard it helps sometimes to hear a familiar voice.
TUVOK: You and Tabor were friends. Do you have any idea why someone would want to hurt him?
JOR: I can't imagine.
TUVOK: Could you tell me where you were from oh seven hundred to eleven hundred hours this morning?
JOR: On duty. In Engineering. You can check with Lieutenant Torres if you like.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary. Thank you, crewman.

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: Harry's found evidence that someone tampered with the holodeck sensor logs. Several files have been deleted.
JANEWAY: Any signs of an outside intruder?
CHAKOTAY: No, nothing.
TUVOK: I believe that a member of this crew is responsible.
JANEWAY: Tabor was well-liked. What's the motive?
TUVOK: I have one suspect. Crewman Jor.
CHAKOTAY: I find that hard to believe. I've known her for a long time. She and Tabor were friends.
TUVOK: Close friends. She had access to his quarters.
CHAKOTAY: A close relationship is hardly a crime.
TUVOK: It is my experience that emotional involvements often lead to unpredictable behaviour.
CHAKOTAY: That's an opinion, not evidence.
TUVOK: There may be other suspects. I intend to question all crew members who had recent contact with Tabor.
CHAKOTAY: I'll check the internal sensors. See what else I can find.
(Chakotay leaves.)
JANEWAY: Commander. You seem awfully convinced that one of the crew was behind this. Now, you can't tell me that's the only logical conclusion, because I can think of a number of others.
TUVOK: I realise that my assumptions seem premature, but I have a strong instinct about this. You might call it a hunch.
JANEWAY: I didn't think that Vulcans had hunches.
TUVOK: I can't explain it, Captain, but I can't ignore it either. Someone on board is responsible and I intend to find out who it is.

[Engineering]

YOSA: Pressure's fluctuating in one one four.
(Jor is standing on the upper level.)
JOR: You'd better check the seals.

[Jeffries tube]

(Josa crawls into the tube and starts scanning. Suddenly the lights go out.
YOSA: Yosa to Engineering. Engineering.
(The sound of a hatch opening, then bright lights shine into his eyes.)
YOSA: Hello?
(Yosa backs out of the tube.)
YOSA: Computer, seal hatch six one three beta.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
YOSA: Crewman Yosa to Security.
(The lights reach him.)

[Sickbay]

(Yosa is on a biobed, staring at the ceiling.)
EMH: His neocortical readings are identical to Tabor's, and he has the same microfractures along his right temple.
TUVOK: Who discovered him?
JANEWAY: Crewman Jor.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Crewman Jor. Jor, respond.
JANEWAY: Computer, locate Crewman Jor.
COMPUTER: Crewman Jor is in the mess hall.

[Mess hall]

(The lights are off, apart from the galley. Tuvok and Chakotay find Jor sitting, staring at the ceiling.)
TUVOK: Crewman Jor.

[Sickbay]

EMH: If this keeps up, I may have to open a special coma ward.
CHAKOTAY: Take a look at their names. Tell me if anything strikes you.
JANEWAY: Former Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: It's either a coincidence, or they're being singled out.
JANEWAY: There hasn't been any hostility between the Maquis and the rest of the crew for years.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe someone on your crew couldn't put the past behind them.
JANEWAY: My crew?
CHAKOTAY: Our crew.
JANEWAY: Are you any closer to a diagnosis, Doctor?

[Doctor's office]

EMH: They all have the same disruptions in their synaptic pathways. The same cranial fractures, contusions. But I still don't know the cause, or how to reverse it.
JANEWAY: Your investigation?
TUVOK: Nothing conclusive.
JANEWAY: Five crewmen in comas and we don't have a single clue?
TUVOK: The assailant must have access to security protocols. There is no other way he could have escaped detection.
EMH: You'd better find a way to protect the rest of the Maquis. I'm running out of beds.

[Mess hall]

(Chakotay gathers the remains of his crew, including the two Bolians.)
CHELL: What is it you expect us to do?
CHAKOTAY: Stay alert. Report anything suspicious to Commander Tuvok.
CHELL: I'd rather report to you, if it's all the same.
CREWMAN: He's right. I've never trusted the Vulcan. He's betrayed us before.
TORRES: He was doing his job.
CREWMAN: He didn't care about the Maquis back then. Why should he now?
TORRES: We're not Maquis anymore.
CREWMAN: Tell that to our friends in Sickbay.
TORRES: Oh, come on. We put our differences aside seven years ago. It's ancient history.
CHELL: Maybe history is repeating itself.
CHAKOTAY: Look, the truth is, we don't know what we're up against. But the last thing we need right now is an outbreak of paranoia. Now until we get to the bottom of this, I want you all to carry hand phasers. Nobody goes anywhere alone.

[Holodeck]

PARIS: We thought maybe the intruder left behind some kind of negative image.
KIM: Displaced photons. Tom figured that if we dampen the photonic ambience and enhance the polarity
TUVOK: We can applaud Mister Paris' ingenuity later. What have you found?
(Kim calls up a shadowy figure on the front row.)
TUVOK: Ensign Tabor.
KIM: Now take a look at this.
(A second figure appears, bending over Tabor.)
TUVOK: Impressive.
KIM: It doesn't tell us who the attacker was, but we do know someone else was here.
TUVOK: Can you extrapolate the assailant's height and weight?
KIM: I'd say between a hundred seventy and a hundred ninety centimetres. Maybe seventy five kilograms.
PARIS: That describes about half the members of the crew.
KIM: At least we can rule out Naomi Wildman.
TUVOK: Is it possible to increase the resolution?
KIM: We're already working on it.
TUVOK: Keep me informed.
(Tuvok stops and turns to gaze at the images.)
PARIS: Commander?

[Corridor]

(Chell keeps looking behind him.)
TORRES: Stop it. You're making me nervous.
CHELL: It doesn't make sense. This ship, with all its sensors. How could five people be attacked without leaving a trace?
TORRES: Good question.
CHELL: Maybe it's a conspiracy. Ever since Voyager began sending datastreams back home, Starfleet has known that almost a quarter of the crew is Maquis.
TORRES: So?
CHELL: Maybe they think we're still dangerous. Maybe they ordered the Captain to neutralise the threat.
TORRES: Yes, that's it. She's putting us all into stasis. The comas are just a cover story.
CHELL: It would be easier than putting us all in the brig.

[Turbolift]

(Seven exits and Torres enters.)
CHELL: It could be her.
TORRES: Oh, please.

[Tuvok's office]

TUVOK: That'll be all, Crewman. Please send in Mister Kim.
(The crewman leaves. Kim enters.)
KIM: I'm still trying to enhance the photon displacement.
TUVOK: I appreciate your efforts, Mister Kim, but I called you here for another reason. In the last datastream from Earth, you received a letter from someone named Dennis Kim.
KIM: My cousin.
TUVOK: In that letter, he spoke of your mutual friend, Maxwell Saroyan.
KIM: You read my mail?
TUVOK: Yes.
KIM: Isn't that a violation of privacy protocols?
TUVOK: As the Chief of Security, I have the authority to suspend those protocols under special circumstances.
KIM: And what is so special about a letter from my cousin?
TUVOK: The attacks began shortly after we received the last datastream. Your letter was part of that transmission.
KIM: A lot of people got letters.
TUVOK: Twenty eight, to be exact, but only six of them matched the physical parameters of the photon displacement.
KIM: Am I a suspect?
TUVOK: According to the letter, your friend, Mister Saroyan, was killed by the Maquis a number of years ago.
KIM: You got me, Tuvok. I confess. I was so distraught after hearing Max's name that I fired my Captain Proton Comatizer at every Maquis I could find.
TUVOK: Your sarcasm could be viewed as subterfuge.
KIM: Tuvok, it's me, Harry. Do you really think I'd be capable of this?
TUVOK: My personal views are irrelevant.
KIM: I learned about Max's death a long time ago. I was upset, but I don't blame the Maquis, and I certainly don't blame anyone on this ship. If that'll be all?
(Tuvok is lost in thought.)
KIM: Is everything all right?
TUVOK: This investigation is perplexing. It defies logic.
KIM: I'll keep you posted on the holodeck analysis.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Commander Tuvok. Report to Sickbay immediately.
TUVOK: On my way.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I thought you might like to have a few words with Mister Tabor.
TUVOK: How did you revive him?
EMH: I didn't. His synaptic pathways stabilised on their own.
TUVOK: How do you feel?
TABOR: Fine, sir. Hungry.
TUVOK: What do you remember?
TABOR: Not much. I was working in the holodeck, and then I was here.
TUVOK: Was anyone in the holodeck with you?
TABOR: No, sir.
TUVOK: Do you know why anyone would want to hurt you?
TABOR: No. What's going on?
TUVOK: Thank you, Ensign.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Crewman, I remember ordering everyone to work in pairs. Where's your partner?
CHELL: Er, she's, er, er.
CHAKOTAY: Who's your partner?
CHELL: Lieutenant Torres. I told her we shouldn't split up, sir, but she said she could handle herself. You know how stubborn she can be.
CHAKOTAY: I have a vague idea. Do you know where she went?
CHELL: Cargo Bay two, sir.
(Chakotay hands off his Vulcan lady escort to Chell.)

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna? Computer, locate Lieutenant Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in Cargo Bay two.
(Chakotay finds her down the back, behind some containers. He looks up and sees Tuvok standing nearby.)
CHAKOTAY: Help me get her to Sickbay.
TUVOK: This is a holy time.
CHAKOTAY: What?
(Chakotay draws his phaser, but Tuvok hits him, knocking him against the wall.)
CHAKOTAY: Security to Cargo Bay two.
(Tuvok pummels Chakotay then initiates a mind meld.)
TUVOK: Let the mind awaken and focus on the task. My mind to your mind, my thoughts to your thoughts.

Captain's log, supplemental. Chakotay and B'Elanna are the latest victims of our mysterious assailant. I've decided to put the ship on a Level ten security alert. Non-essential personnel are confined to quarters, and security teams have been posted on all decks.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Tuvok puts some evidence into a case.)
TUVOK: Ensign, run a metallurgical analysis.
JANEWAY: Two more victims regained consciousness. Crewmen Yosa and Jor. Their bio-readings returned to normal, as if they suffered nothing worse than a good night's sleep. It doesn't make any sense.
TUVOK: It is, however, a pattern, and a pattern implies purpose. We simply have to uncover it.
JANEWAY: Any clues here?
TUVOK: Not yet.
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to think our perpetrator is a ghost.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should conduct a séance.
JANEWAY: It couldn't hurt.
TUVOK: I have worked meticulously, yet he has outwitted me each time.
JANEWAY: How can you be sure it's a he?
TUVOK: I can't, but I am.
JANEWAY: Another hunch?
TUVOK: I can almost sense his presence. It's as though he's challenging me to find him.
JANEWAY: I'd say you're taking this a little too personally. Maybe you should take a break.
TUVOK: No.
JANEWAY: You haven't slept in three days. Get some rest, Meditate. Clear your mind.
TUVOK: My mind is perfectly clear.
JANEWAY: I don't want to make this an order, Tuvok. I'll go over your scans. Fresh pair of eyes might help.
TUVOK: Captain.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok lights his meditation lamp and kneels on a big cushion. He has sepia visions of the victims in Sickbay, Tabor in the cinema, Yosa in the Jefferies tube, Chakotay. He abandons the meditation and staggers to the bathroom. He remembers Chakotay hitting him, and lifts his tunic to see the big bruise it left. In the mirror, he sees a Bajoran standing behind him.)
TEERO: Resist your doubts.
(There is no one there. Tuvok leaves his quarters.)

[Corridor]

TEERO [OC]: Don't question your mission.

[Holodeck - cinema]

JANEWAY: Filter out the polarised photons. Anyone you know? Tuvok.
TUVOK: Computer, isolate the precise time index of this image.
COMPUTER: Stardate 54090.4.
TUVOK: Where was Commander Tuvok at that time?
COMPUTER: Access to that information has been restricted.
TUVOK: By whom?
COMPUTER: Access to that information has been restricted.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, what's going on?
TUVOK: Computer, override those security restrictions. Authorisation Tuvok pi alpha.
COMPUTER: Restrictions overridden.
TUVOK: Where was Commander Tuvok at the specified time?
COMPUTER: Commander Tuvok was in holodeck two.
TUVOK: Computer, based on the most recent data, can you give me a better estimation of the intruder's height?
COMPUTER: One hundred eighty two centimetres.
TUVOK: And what is the height of Lieutenant Commander Tuvok?
COMPUTER: One hundred eighty two centimetres.
TUVOK: Captain, I believe I
(Tuvok sees Teero standing behind Kim and Janeway, and draws his phaser.)
TEERO: Ignore your doubts.
(Kim draws his weapon but Janeway stays his hand.)
TUVOK: No.
JANEWAY: Commander, lower your weapon.
TEERO: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
TUVOK: Who are you?
(Janeway takes Tuvok's phaser.)
TUVOK: Captain, it would appear that I am the guilty party.
JANEWAY: How is that possible?
TUVOK: I don't know. But for the safety of the crew you must confine me to the brig.

[Brig]

(Tuvok is meditating while the EMH scans him.)
EMH: He wants to speak with you, but I advise you to remain outside the forcefield.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you hear me?
TUVOK: I hear you. But there is another voice trying to control me.
JANEWAY: Another voice? Whose? This is a holy time. What did you mean by that?
TUVOK: A primal energy charges the blood, an energy of rebirth.
JANEWAY: That's what the voice is telling you?
TUVOK: It's a Bajoran incantation. The voice is Bajoran.
EMH: We need to get you to Sickbay so I can run
TUVOK: No! No more scans. Leave me alone.
TEERO: Don't question your mission.
TUVOK: Get away from me.
JANEWAY: What do you see, Tuvok?
TUVOK: The Bajoran.
(Janeway steps into Tuvok's line of sight.)
JANEWAY: Ignore him. Focus on my voice. Tell me what's happening.
TUVOK: I believe I've, I've been attacking certain members of the crew. The Maquis. Then investigating the crimes with no memory of what I'd done.
EMH: Attacking them how?
TUVOK: Mind melds.
JANEWAY: Why?
TUVOK: I don't know. He is responsible. What did you do to me?
JANEWAY: Commander. Commander. Is he a member of the crew? Then who is he?
TUVOK: I don't know.
JANEWAY: The day the first attack occurred, did anything unusual happen to you?
TUVOK: I was tending to my duties. I received a letter from my son.
JANEWAY: A letter? This all started right after we received the last datastream.
TUVOK: I reviewed every letter except my own.
JANEWAY: Stay with him, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay sits up in bed.)
CHAKOTAY: How long?
PARIS: Twenty nine hours. She woke up just before you did.
JANEWAY: They've all recovered. We don't know why. It's Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
JANEWAY: He's in the brig. Apparently, he's being manipulated by some form of mind control. Can he leave, Mister Paris?
PARIS: I don't see why not, but he should wear one of these.
(The ubiquitous cortical monitor.)
JANEWAY: There's something I want to show you.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Tuvok's son is a mature teenager.)
SEK [on screen]: Exo-linguistics always seemed a little too theoretical to me. I've decided to study musical composition instead. I would have sent you my latest polytonal construct, but they wouldn't give me enough room in this datastream. Maybe next time, I can.
CHAKOTAY: A letter from his son.
JANEWAY: We found another signal embedded in the message. A letter within a letter.
SEK [on screen]: Hello, Father. We received your last transmission.
TEERO [on screen]: This is a holy time. B'tanay, the time of awakening. Return to that dark place from which all life springs.
SEVEN: The signal is calibrated to correspond with Vulcan synaptic frequencies. Tuvok wouldn't have been consciously aware of it.
CHAKOTAY: Teero. Teero Anaydis. He was a Bajoran Vedek. He worked with the Maquis.
JANEWAY: Doing what?
CHAKOTAY: Counter-intelligence. He was thrown out for experimenting with mind control. He thought it was a good way to recruit agents.
JANEWAY: Well, apparently he was successful at recruiting our Tactical Officer. These incantations and symbols, they must have triggered something in Tuvok. Preconditioned behaviour, instructions.
CHAKOTAY: I should've known you'd show up again.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Teero was a fanatic. He'd go to any extreme for the Maquis. He called the rest of us traitors for rejecting his ideas. Swore he'd fight the war on his own if he had to.
SEVEN: Why instruct Tuvok to mind meld with Voyager's Maquis thirty five thousand light years from Earth?
JANEWAY: I'd like Tuvok to take a look at this message. Maybe it'll jog his memory. (to Seven) Try to decode those symbols.

[Brig]

(Tuvok is looking at a PADD.)
TUVOK: It's him.
JANEWAY: His name is Teero Anaydis.
TUVOK: Teero.
JANEWAY: He worked for Maquis Intelligence.
TUVOK: Yes, I remember meeting him. I was undercover, doing reconnaissance on a colony near the Badlands. He was a Vedek at the Bajoran temple there.
JANEWAY: Go on.
TUVOK: We spoke briefly. He was interested in Vulcan culture. That's all I remember.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's all he wanted you to remember. He was developing some kind of mind control technique. We think he used it on you seven years ago.
(Tuvok has a quick sepia vision of himself.)
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I, I was restrained. Very frightened.
JANEWAY: What did he do to you?
TUVOK: I can't remember.
JANEWAY: Try.
TUVOK: I can't!
(Tuvok curls up in the corner of his cell.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok, if we're going to help you, we need to find out. The last time you meditated, it helped the memories resurface, didn't it? You've helped me meditate. I think I've learned a thing or two about the process. Let me try to guide you.
(The forcefield is lowered, and Janeway enters the cell. A short time later, Tuvok is kneeling.)
JANEWAY: Where are you?
TUVOK: In a laboratory. Underground.

[Memory - Teero's lab]

(Tuvok is strapped to a table, with blinkies on his forehead.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Is Teero there?
TUVOK [OC]: There is someone. It's him.
JANEWAY [OC]: Describe what's happening.
TEERO: Lieutenant.

[Brig]

JANEWAY: Tuvok? Tuvok?

[Memory - Teero's lab]

TEERO: It is Lieutenant, isn't it? I'm sure your Maquis comrades would be interested to know your Starfleet rank. Don't worry, I don't plan to expose you.
TUVOK: What do you want?
TEERO: You. You're the perfect subject.
TUVOK: For what?
TEERO: I'm a student of the mind. Yours is remarkable. Disciplined, orderly. On the surface, that is. Beneath
(Teero injects Tuvok.)
TEERO: Boiling emotions, repressed violence. In a sense, you're two different men. One I could never hope to manipulate, but the other
TUVOK: I have been trained to resist mind control.
TEERO: That's the rational, logical part of you at work, but I want to reach your inner fire. Your spirit.
TUVOK: Why? Wait. Please, please, don't.
(Teero jabs a pulsing needle into a device on Tuvok's forehead.)
TEERO: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.

[Brig]

(Tuvok leaps up and backs into a corner.)
TUVOK: Stay away from me!
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TEERO: Complete your mission.
TUVOK: No!
TEERO: This is a holy time.
JANEWAY: Commander.
(Tuvok pushes Janeway across the cell. She holds up her hand to stop the guard from firing his phaser. Against protocol, Tuvok still has his comm. badge.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Chakotay.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.

[Brig]

JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay. Commander. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay. What did that mean, Tuvok? Tell me.
TUVOK: This is a holy time. A time of awakening.
JANEWAY: This Teero has awakened you to do what? If you can remember, you can fight him. You can resist. What does he want?
TUVOK: To give us instructions.
JANEWAY: What kind of instructions?
TEERO: Focus on your task.
TUVOK: No.
(Chakotay's cortical monitor is going berserk.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: It's Chakotay.
PARIS: What is it?
EMH: I'm not sure. Sickbay to Commander Chakotay. Computer, locate Chakotay.
COMPUTER: Commander Chakotay is in sickbay.
(Only just. Chakotay is entering.)
CHAKOTAY: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
PARIS: Commander?
(Chakotay phasers Paris. Torres sits up.)
CHAKOTAY: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
(He rips off his cortical monitor.)
TORRES: I understand.
(Torres and the other Maquis have armed themselves with phaser rifles. The group splits up in a corridor.)

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Deck one.

[Brig]

JANEWAY: Why were you using mind melds? What did Teero want you to do?
TUVOK: To awaken the others.
TEERO: Resist your doubts.
TUVOK: No!
JANEWAY: Focus on me.
TEERO: Complete your mission. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
TUVOK: You don't control me!

[Bridge]

KIM: Good to see you, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: It's good to be back.
(Chakotay shoots Kim. He and his escort shoot the rest of the bridge crew.)

[Brig]

(Red alert is sounding.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.
(Tuvok is sitting very still. The forcefield is lowered and Janeway steps out of the cell. Torres and her group take over Engineering by force.)

[Corridor]

(A phaser shot hits the security guard from the brig in the back.)
JANEWAY: What the hell are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: I think it's obvious. I'm taking control of your ship. Within the hour all Starfleet personnel will be locked in their quarters. Step back in the Brig, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: What's Teero done to you?
CHAKOTAY: He simply helped us remember who we are. We're Maquis. We've always been Maquis.
JANEWAY: The rebellion ended three years ago. You know that.
CHAKOTAY: In the Alpha Quadrant, maybe. Not on this ship.
TORRES [OC]: Torres to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TORRES [OC]: Deck eleven is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.

[Brig]

JANEWAY: We're thirty five light years from Earth, Chakotay. No one out here even knows about the Maquis. It doesn't make sense. There's nothing you can accomplish.
CHAKOTAY: As long as we exist, so does the rebellion.
JANEWAY: That's Teero talking. He was unstable, you said so yourself.
CHAKOTAY: We have no intention of hurting any of you.
(Janeway is put into the cell with Tuvok and the unconscious guard. Tuvok looks at Janeway then turns to Chakotay.)
TUVOK: Your orders, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: Take your station.

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain's log, stardate 54101. Voyager is now under my command. We're en route to an M class planet where we'ill relocate the Starfleet crew.

[Bridge]

(The Maquis are in their preferred clothes, not uniforms.)
JOR: We're in range. 
TORRES: On screen. Looks like a nice place for a Federation colony. Take us into orbit.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Tuvok, would you mind joining me in the ready room?

[Ready room]

TUVOK: You wished to see me, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: You can drop the formalities. This is a Maquis ship now. Vulcan brandy. I thought we'd have a drink to celebrate.
TUVOK: A fitting gesture.
(Ayala is standing guard.)
CHAKOTAY: To awakenings.
TUVOK: Awakenings.
CHAKOTAY: There are still twenty three of our former comrades who aren't with us yet. I was hoping you'd be able to help persuade them.
TUVOK: I'm prepared to mind meld with the remaining Maquis to convey Teero's instructions.
CHAKOTAY: It'll be nice to have my old crew back. You've been a big help to us, Tuvok, but I can't forget what happened seven years ago. You have a history of betraying the Maquis.
TUVOK: It won't happen again.
CHAKOTAY: We have a small crew. I have to be able to trust everyone, especially my tactical officer.
(He taps his comm. badge.)
CHAKOTAY: Bring her in.
(Janeway is brought in at gunpoint. Chakotay hands Tuvok his own hand phaser.)
CHAKOTAY: Consider this a test of your loyalty. It's set to kill.
JANEWAY: You said you wouldn't hurt anyone. (Tuvok sets down his glass.)
JANEWAY: You're in control of your actions. Not Chakotay, not Teero.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Don't do this.
(Tuvok fires the phaser at Janeway. It stutters.)
TUVOK: This phaser is defective.
CHAKOTAY: Take her back to the brig.
(Janeway is escorted out.)
CHAKOTAY: You passed.
(Ayala leaves them alone.)
CHAKOTAY: Now, we've got some tactical issues to review. I want to re-route all weapons control to my console.
(Tuvok neck-pinches him, then does a mind meld.)
TUVOK: My mind to your mind. My thoughts to your thoughts.

[Bridge]

(Chakotay returns to the bridge with Tuvok.)
TORRES: Kim and Paris engineered a little breakout on deck six. We've contained them all behind a forcefield.
JOR: We should begin the evacuation.
TORRES: Start beaming them down. Begin on deck two, section zero one.
CHAKOTAY: Belay that order. Tuvok informed me that this planet has an unstable atmosphere. Go to Astrometrics and scan for an alternative.
TORRES: What are you talking about? There's nothing wrong with the atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: We don't have time to debate this.
TORRES: I can scan from here. Chakotay, what's going on?
(Torres reaches for her phaser. Everybody draws theirs.)
TUVOK: Stand down.

[Brig]

TUVOK: Your weapon.
(The guard gives it up. The cell forcefield is lowered.)
CHAKOTAY: I thought you might like your ship back.
JANEWAY: No more rebellion?
CHAKOTAY: It took another mind meld with Tuvok, but I'm fine.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, you're all right.
TUVOK: I am in control again, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever you said to him, it worked.
JANEWAY: It's good to have you back, Commander.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: All ready for Attack of the Lobster People?
TUVOK: I am not familiar with that species.
CHAKOTAY: You will be, soon enough.
TUVOK: I haven't completed my security rounds.
(Chakotay takes his PADD.)
CHAKOTAY: You have now.

[Holodeck - cinema]

(Neelix offers a choice of popcorn.)
NEELIX: Buttered or unbuttered?
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Neelix.
(Janeway waves to Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: I saved you a seat.
TUVOK: How long is this entertainment?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. Tom said something about a double feature. I've been meaning to ask you. How did you know that phaser wasn't charged?
TUVOK: Chakotay doubted my loyalty. He wouldn't have given me an active weapon.
JANEWAY: Not exactly ironclad logic.
(The lights go down.)
TUVOK: Call it a hunch.
JANEWAY: Remind me to pay more attention to your hunches.
TORRES: Shush!
(They put on their 3D glasses.)


S7 E5
Critical Care
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 1 November 2000

[Level Red]
(A storm rages above a huge city. A small craft flies to a massive floating structure. A lot of patients are being wheeled around on gurneys in a crowded area.)
ALLOCATOR: Trauma team four to Level Red. Trauma team four to Level Red. Code Four nursing unit, report to Level Red
ORDERLY: No, he does have a sensor. It's not working.
(A wall sensor stops the visitor.)
ALLOCATOR: Negative for dysplasia, viremia, necrobiosis. Please extend your arms. Species, Dralian. Identity, Gar. TC fifteen. You may proceed.
(The mammalian biped walks up to a chubby faced humanoid.)
GAR: Chellick. Lucky I caught you.
CHELLICK: Mister Gar. I wish I had time to talk.
GAR: Well, all you have to do is listen. I have a new supply of cytogenics.
CHELLICK: Your last supply was useless. Expired lots, diluted samples.
GAR: Oh, I have something special this time.
CHELLICK: The latest in substandard technology, no doubt.
GAR: Oh, this item is far from substandard. And as a gesture of goodwill, I'm offering it to you first.
CHELLICK: We don't need another neural monitor.
GAR: This is much more sophisticated than that.
CHELLICK: I'm sure it has some ingenious use but I'm not interested.
(Gar activates the mobile emitter.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency? Where have you taken me?
GAR: It's a holographic construct programmed with over five million medical protocols.
EMH: I demand to be returned to Voyager at once.
CHELLICK: What's Voyager?
EMH: The Federation Starship to which I'm assigned. This man is a kidnapper.
GAR: I would never offer you stolen property. I traded warp-grade dilithium for this programme.
CHELLICK: What's your price?
EMH: This negotiation is pointless. I'm not about to perform medical services for a pair of common thieves.
CHELLICK: It doesn't seem to be in working order.
ALLOCATOR: Trauma victims are now arriving at Emergency Intake Seven.
CHELLICK: What caused their injuries?
ALLOCATOR: A generator explosion at the Gammadan mining facility.
GAR: You'd better start cooperating, or I will dismantle your programme and sell it off one subroutine at a time.
EMH: When Captain Janeway discovers what you've done
ORDERLY: Come on, let's go. Clear a path. Here we go. Tuck him in there.
ORDERLY 2: We haven't got any coagulants.
VOJE: Somebody check the reserves.
ORDERLY: There are no reserves.
VOJE: This one's got grade four pulmonary burns. 
ALLOCATOR: Patient's TC is four. Transfer to level green.
VOJE: Green isn't equipped for this.
CHELLICK: His TC's only four. Take him to Green.
EMH: Don't touch that. This patient's bleeding seriously. He needs an immediate infusion.
VOJE: What are you doing? Get away from him.
EMH: With technology this primitive you may as well be using leeches.
VOJE: Who is this man?
CHELLICK: A Doctor, of sorts. I thought you were withholding your services.
EMH: Fortunately for these patients, I am programmed with the Hippocratic Oath. It requires me to treat anyone who's ill. This patient needs twenty milligrams anesthizine. Get me a hypospray.
ORDERLY: A what?
EMH: I'm sorry, this may hurt a little.
(The EMH uses a hypodermic needle. Gar looks smug.)

[Corridor]

(After a game of ice hockey.)
KIM: Did you have to programme that Nausicaan guard to high stick so much?
PARIS: Well, you play hockey, you got to expect a few lumps.
KIM: What are we going to tell the Doctor? You know how he feels about our juvenile holoprogrammes.
PARIS: Relax. I'll come up with something.

[Sickbay]

KIM: Hey, Doc.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KIM: I know what you're thinking, but there's a simple explanation. Tell him, Tom.
PARIS: Right. Well, er, see, Doc, we were running these invasion scenarios, when this species of proto-humanoid.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PARIS: Are you okay, Doc?
EMH: Please take an analgesic and return in twenty four hours.

[Briefing room]

(Torres hands the mobile emitter to Janeway.)
TORRES: It's a replicated fake.
PARIS: The programme running in Sickbay is from one of Doc's old training files.
JANEWAY: I want someone to tell me how this snake oil salesman managed to evade every security protocol on the ship.
TUVOK: I take full responsibility.
JANEWAY: I'm not interested in fault. I just want to know how it happened.
NEELIX: Ah, Gar spend the night in Sickbay. He claimed to have gotten food poisoning at dinner.
CHAKOTAY: He had plenty of time to learn about the mobile emitter from the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Who I'm sure was more than willing to extol its virtues.
TORRES: Medical logs show the training file was activated just before Gar left Voyager.
JANEWAY: Scan for his ion trail. And lets review safeguards for accessing low-security files, shall we, Mister Tuvok?

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Captain, don't blame Tuvok for what happened. It was my fault.
JANEWAY: How so?
NEELIX: Gar kept complaining how bland his dinner was so I added a few exotic spices.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure I see your point.
NEELIX: I was trying so hard to create something he liked that I didn't take his alien physiology into account. Everyone's assuming he faked his illness but I might have really made him sick.
JANEWAY: It's not as if your cooking turned him into a thief.
NEELIX: No. But if he hadn't gone to Sickbay, he may never have come up with a plan to kidnap the Doctor, much less have the opportunity to do it.
JANEWAY: In my experience, Neelix, men like Gar have no trouble finding opportunities to take advantage of other people.
NEELIX: I just hope there's something I can do to help find the Doctor.
JANEWAY: When and if that opportunity arises, I'm sure you'll make the most of it.

[Level Red]

VOJE: That was the most impressive cortical bypass I've ever seen.
EMH: It's just a question of possessing the basic skills.
VOJE: If I had basic skills like yours, they'd move me up to Level Blue. Take this patient to Yellow.
EMH: You seem a little low on resources here. If I could contact my medical staff, I might be able get you some additional supplies.
VOJE: Communication is usually restricted but the Allocator might give you clearance.
EMH: Good. Where can I find him?
VOJE: The Allocator isn't a him. It's our main computer.
EMH: Well, perhaps it could establish a communications link with Voyager's main computer.
VOJE: You'll have to submit a formal request to Chellick and support it with form eight three W in triplicate. Even then.
(A man is coughing a lot.)
EMH: Why hasn't this patient been treated yet?
TEBBIS: He's waiting for proton imaging. There are a lot of other people ahead of him.
EMH: It's nice to see someone knows what's going on. What's your name?
TEBBIS: Tebbis.
EMH: Well, Tebbis, this doesn't look too serious.
TEBBIS: It's just a little osteal extravasation.
EMH: Excellent diagnosis.
TEBBIS: I hope to be a doctor someday.
EMH: Really? Well, I hope your working conditions are better than these.
TEBBIS: It wouldn't be so bad if they'd let us listen to music.
EMH: It would certainly improve my mood.
TEBBIS: It's not just that. Music has great healing power.
EMH: I couldn't agree with you more.
(They return to the coughing man.)
VOJE: Exhale slowly.
EMH: Can't you give him a neural blocker?
VOJE: He's already had his allocation.
EMH: The leg injury isn't all I'm picking up. He's got some kind of systemic disease.
VOJE: It's a chromo-viral infection. We have twelve cases down here. He's in the final stage.
EMH: Is there an established treatment?
VOJE: Cytoglobin injections.
EMH: These scans don't show any cytoglobin in his bloodstream.
VOJE: He hasn't been given any.
EMH: Why not?
VOJE: He doesn't have a high enough TC.
EMH: TC? What's that?
CHELLICK: Ah, there you are. I'm happy to report that I've acquired your programme from Gar. Please come with me.
EMH: I will not. May I remind you I'm being illegally detained, or hasn't the rule of law reached this society yet?
CHELLICK: We follow the Allocator's rules. And it's determined that your services are required on Level Blue.
VOJE: Please, Doctor. The Allocator knows which patients need help the most.

[Hospital Turbolift]

(The colour coded diagram on the back of the turbolift shows that Level Blue is the smallest and topmost level. Green is next, then Yellow. Red is the biggest and White is at the bottom.)
EMH: Level Blue is your critical care area, I presume.
CHELLICK: Level Blue is the area where it's most critical that we provide excellent care.

[Level Blue]

(Plenty of space, quiet, carpets.)
CHELLICK: These patients will be your chief responsibility from now on. Do whatever you can to make them well.
EMH: Why are these patients getting preferential treatment?
CHELLICK: They have a higher TC than the others.
EMH: Indulge me. What's TC?
CHELLICK: Treatment Coefficient. The Allocator assigns one to every patient. It determines the level of care they receive.
EMH: How is this coefficient derived?
CHELLICK: Through a complex formula that involves profession, skills, accomplishments.
EMH: How is any of that relevant to medical treatment?
CHELLICK: An agricultural engineer is obviously more important than a waste processor.
EMH: Important to whom?
CHELLICK: Society. When your resources are limited, you have to prioritise.
EMH: So you base treatment on whether patients have particular abilities?
CHELLICK: It's much more complicated than that. The Allocator assesses the entire individual.
EMH: And reduces his life to a number.
CHELLICK: It may seem impersonal, but it's what the Dinaali have contracted us to do.
DYSEK: Chellick's people are known throughout the sector for their administrative skills. Before they came here, we were a dying race. Eco-disasters, famine.
CHELLICK: Doctor Dysek, Chief of Medicine. The medical hologram I told you about.
EMH: Are you in charge of what passes for care on Level Red? Because those people are suffering.
DYSEK: Intriguing technology. Can we use him to treat patients yet?
CHELLICK: That's what he's here for.
EMH: In some societies, it's considered rude to refer to someone in the third person while he's standing in front of you.
CHELLICK: I'm sure you'll make good use of him.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The warp trail ends here. Gar should be directly ahead.
JANEWAY: All stop. Red alert. On screen.
(It is only a beacon.)
TUVOK: It's emitting a false warp signature.
JANEWAY: Looks we've underestimated Mister Gar again.
PARIS: Now what?
TUVOK: There may be another way to find him.
CHAKOTAY: What do you have in mind?
TUVOK: He traded us high-grade iridium, which has a very brief half-life. His ship is slow. Logic suggests he acquired the substance within a radius of three light years.
JANEWAY: Cross-reference our sensor logs and long range scans.
KIM: Two planets, no atmosphere or technology, a T class nebula. Here's something. An asteroid with approximately two hundred humanoid lifesigns. Subterranean structures.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like a mining operation.
TUVOK: If that's where Mister Gar acquired the iridium, they may be able to help us find him.
JANEWAY: Tom, how fast can you get us there?
PARIS: Less than two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.
(They arrive at the asteroid.)
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
MINER [on viewscreen]: I want my iridium back now.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
MINER [on viewscreen]: I've scanned your ship. I know you've got it on board.
JANEWAY: Yes. We obtained it from a man called Gar. A merchant
MINER [on viewscreen]: You mean thief.
CHAKOTAY: So you have had the pleasure of meeting him.
MINER [on viewscreen]: He was here two days ago. He sold us three thousand induction units. He was gone a day before we realised he'd also stolen twenty kilos of ore.
JANEWAY: We had a similar experience. Maybe we can help each other.
MINER [on viewscreen]: How?
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea where we might find him?
MINER [on viewscreen]: Will you return my iridium?
JANEWAY: By all means, but Gar only traded us half of what he stole from you. However, we might be able to get the rest of it back.
MINER [on viewscreen]: All I can tell you is that the induction units came from a planetoid called Velos.

[Level Blue]

DYSEK: (to another man.) You may go.
EMH: Your surgical technique is impressive.
DYSEK: Well. you've obviously had experience with cellular repair.
EMH: As a matter of fact, I've done extensive research on the subject. I'd be happy to share it with you, but we'll have to contact Voyager to get it.
DYSEK: You'll have to discuss that with Chellick. He authorises all communications. It's time for this patient's next injection.
NURSE: Requesting one cytoglobin injection for patient B three, priority blue seven gamma.
ALLOCATOR: One cytoglobin injection authorised.
EMH: Does this patient have a chromo-viral infection?
(The nurse injects the woman on the bed.)
DYSEK: No. Why?
EMH: I was told cytoglobin is the standard treatment for that disease.
DYSEK: Cytoglobin also prevents arterial aging.
NURSE: Will that be all?
DYSEK: You may go.
EMH: This patient's arteries appear to be healthy.
DYSEK: At the moment. But daily injections increase life expectancy up to forty percent. We prescribe them for all Level Blue patients.
EMH: I just saw a boy on Level Red who's dying. This medicine could save his life.
DYSEK: This woman is a chief engineer of an irrigation facility which provides water to half the subcontinent.
EMH: So her life is more valuable?
DYSEK: Keeping her healthy contributes to our survival. Can you say the same for the boy on Level Red?
EMH: Who knows what he'll accomplish if he has the chance.
DYSEK: If he becomes more valuable to society, his TC will rise, and then he'll receive better treatment.
EMH: He may not be around long enough.
DYSEK: I'm sorry he's sick, but our society is much better off since we began following the Allocator's protocols.
EMH: Some of you are.

[Level Red]

VOJE: I never expected to see you again.
EMH: Why do you say that?
VOJE: Level Blue is much more prestigious.
EMH: Prestige is the least of my concerns. How is he?
VOJE: Not well.
(The EMH scans the boy.)
EMH: His condition's deteriorated so rapidly.
VOJE: His coenzyme allotment's been reduced.
EMH: Are we here to help these people, or kill them?
VOJE: His TC is just too low.
EMH: Maybe we can raise it.
VOJE: That's not possible.
EMH: If it's purely a function of statistics, we can simply input more data.
VOJE: We're not authorised to do that.
EMH: Voje, when you look at your patient lying there, you have to ask yourself what can I do? What must I do? We can amend his database to include additional skills.
VOJE: Such as?
EMH: His extensive knowledge of neutronics.
VOJE: He doesn't know anything about neutronics.
EMH: We can say he does. What's the harm in trying?
VOJE: Amend patient R twelve's TC to include an expertise in neutronics.
ALLOCATOR: Unable to verify. Amendment denied.
VOJE: You see?
TEBBIS: Hello.
EMH: Lie still.
TEBBIS: What are you doing?
EMH: Trying to get you the proper medication.
TEBBIS: You're wasting time you could be spending with other patients.
EMH: You have as much right to treatment as anyone.
TEBBIS: It's not your fault.
VOJE: There's nothing you can do.

[Level Blue]

EMH: Nurse?
NURSE: Yes, Doctor?
EMH: Why hasn't this patient received her additional cytoglobin injection?
NURSE: Additional?
EMH: If you'd examined her chart, you'd see that I've increased her dosage.
NURSE: Doctor Dysek didn't say anything.
EMH: Doctor Dysek is at home with his family. Would you like me to contact him so you can explain why you're not doing your job?
NURSE: No, Doctor. Requesting one cytoglobin injection for Patient B three, priority blue seven gamma.
ALLOCATOR: One cytoglobin injection authorised.
EMH: I'll do it myself.
NURSE: Can I assist you?
EMH: You may go.
(When she has gone he pockets the hypo and goes down to Level Red, where he uses it on Tebbis instead.)

[Bridge]

(An alien with a very high forehead.)
KIPP [on viewscreen]: He convinced me to let him take the induction units on consignment. That was more than ten days ago. I haven't heard from him since.
TUVOK: You appear to be an experienced merchant, Mister Kipp. Why would you trust someone like Gar?
KIPP [on viewscreen]: He came highly recommended.
TUVOK: By whom?
KIPP [on viewscreen]: A buyer I know. He said he's been trading with Gar for years.
JANEWAY: Do you know where we can find this buyer? 
HUSBAND [on viewscreen]: Yes, Captain. I am the fool who said that Gar could be trusted.
JANEWAY: Sounds like you've changed your mind.
HUSBAND [on viewscreen]: I should have known it was a mistake but, well, you see, I have never been able to say no to my wife.
TUVOK: What does she have to do with it?
HUSBAND [on viewscreen]: Well, she's the one who asked me to recommend Gar.
TUVOK: Then she must know him well.
HUSBAND [on viewscreen]: They're, er, friends.
TUVOK: May we speak with her?
HUSBAND [on viewscreen]: She's, er. Well, she's not here.
JANEWAY: Do you know where we might find her?
HUSBAND [on viewscreen]: She left me.
ADULTERESS [on viewscreen]: You're a woman. You saw my husband with your own eyes. Overweight, depressed. You would have left him too, especially if you had met someone as exciting as Gar.
JANEWAY: Yes, he's very exciting.
ADULTERESS [on viewscreen]: That's why you're looking for him, isn't it? You want him for yourself.
JANEWAY: I assure you, I have no romantic interest in him whatsoever.
ADULTERESS [on viewscreen]: Why? Not good enough for you?
JANEWAY: No, it's not that, it's just that
(Janeway takes Tuvok's hand.)
JANEWAY: I already have a man.
TUVOK: We have a business opportunity for Mister Gar. One that will expire if we don't find him soon.
ADULTERESS [on viewscreen]: He's on his way to the gambling tournament on Selek Four. When you see him, tell him to hurry home.

[Level Red]

EMH: How are you feeling?
TEBBIS: Better.
EMH: That's what happens when you get the proper treatment.
TEBBIS: But I'm not authorised to receive cytoglobin.
EMH: You are now. You'll need several more injections, but you can expect a complete recovery.
TEBBIS: Whatever you did, they'll find out. They'll punish you.
EMH: You're assuming I've done something illicit.
TEBBIS: Didn't you?
EMH: Of course not. I simply had a talk with Chellick, explained to him what a bright young man you are, and he had the Allocator recalculate your TC.
TEBBIS: I've never met a doctor like you.
EMH: Well, it's not hard to stand out when the general level of competence is so low.
TEBBIS: There are patients on this level who deserve a higher TC than I do. Could you talk to Chellick about them?
(The EMH goes to find Voje. He is carrying a case.)
VOJE: Thank you.
EMH: Ah, Voje. You're not busy, are you?
VOJE: Well, actually, I was just
EMH: I want you to help me dispense these injections.
VOJE: Where did you get the cytoglobin?
EMH: Level Blue, where else.
VOJE: You stole it?
EMH: I prefer to think of it as reallocation. We're going to treat every chromo-virus patient on this level.
VOJE: Do you have any idea what kind of trouble we could get into?
EMH: We? Then you will help me.
VOJE: No, absolutely not. Modifying data files was bad enough.
EMH: Well, I certainly wouldn't want you to do anything to compromise your ethics.
TEBBIS: I'll help you.
VOJE: You should be in bed.
EMH: Actually, now that he's improving a little, activity will do him good. You can go back to doing whatever you were doing.
(Tebbis and the EMH find an unconscious man.)
EMH: The best place to inject him is here, in the lateral artery.
(Tebbis does it.)
EMH: Excellent work. It's nice to see someone in this hospital has a future as a healer.
VOJE: If we each take a third of the patients, maybe we can finish before someone catches us.

[Level Blue]

DYSEK: Who do you think you are, prescribing unnecessary medications for my patients?
EMH: It wasn't unnecessary.
DYSEK: If you believe that, you're incompetent. Or perhaps malfunctioning.
EMH: I was simply trying to increase our allocation of resources.
DYSEK: What are you talking about?
EMH: I did some checking. Last month, Level Blue's total medication requests were down by six percent.
DYSEK: Because our cure rate was higher.
EMH: Exactly. Because you performed so efficiently last month, the Allocator will determine you're able to do with less next month. If we don't order more medication now, we may not get it when we need it. Think about it, Doctor. If you don't have the proper resources, your cure rate could go down. If that happens, the Allocator may assign you to a lower level.
(Chellick comes out of his office.)
CHELLICK: Are we having a problem with our newest piece of technology?
DYSEK: Actually, he seems to be learning the system quite well.

[Level Red]

VOJE: Three of the patients we injected are practically virus free.
EMH: What did you expect?
VOJE: Maybe we could reallocate other medications. Treat more patients.
EMH: Now you're thinking like a doctor. And to support your efforts, I've arranged for resources from Level Blue to be diverted here on a regular basis.
VOJE: How did you manage that?
EMH: Let's just say Doctor Dysek and I have developed a professional rapport. Sometimes I even surprise myself.
VOJE: We may actually make these people better.
EMH: That feeling you get from healing someone. Infectious, isn't it?
(They go to Tebbis' bed.)
VOJE: Where did you get that?
TEBBIS: One of the technicians was going to recycle it because it wasn't working, but I think I fixed it.
(It is a hand-held medical scanner.)
EMH: It seems to be in good condition, and so do you. You'll be well enough to leave soon.
TEBBIS: Couldn't you say I'm still sick?
EMH: Don't you want to go home?
TEBBIS: If I do, they'll send me to work in the refinery with my father.
EMH: What about school? Your medical training?
TEBBIS: I would never be authorised for that.
VOJE: He's right.
TEBBIS: If I stay here, you can teach me, and I can help you treat your patients.
EMH: I'm not planning on being here that long, myself.
TEBBIS: Then I can help Doctor Voje.
EMH: We'll see what we can do.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I have picked up Gar's ship, directly ahead.
PARIS: Again?
TUVOK: I'm reading his biosigns.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of the Doctor or his emitter?
TUVOK: Not yet.
KIM: Should I hail Gar?
JANEWAY: If we let him know we're here, he may try to slip away.
CHAKOTAY: We could drop out of warp at close range and grab him before he knows what's happening.
JANEWAY: I like it. Tom, Tuvok.
(Voyager appears overhead and puts a tractor beam on the small ship.)
KIM: He's hailing.
JANEWAY: I guess we put him in the mood to talk. On screen.
GAR [on viewscreen]: I thought we were friends, Captain. Why am I being treated this way? I think I deserve better.
JANEWAY: Where's our doctor?
GAR [on viewscreen]: I have no idea. I certainly hope nothing's happened to him.
TUVOK: Scans are complete. Neither the mobile emitter nor the Doctor's programme are aboard Gar's ship.
GAR [on viewscreen]: Well, of course they're not.
CHAKOTAY: He's trying to destabilise the tractor beam with a feedback pulse.
KIM: Compensating.
JANEWAY: Don't bother, Harry. Just beam him to the brig.

[Level Red]

EMH: Tebbis, wake up. Time to make our rounds.
(But there is an elderly woman in Tebbis' bed.)
EMH: Locate Patient R twelve.
ALLOCATOR: Patient R twelve has been transferred to Level White.
EMH: Tebbis has been moved.
VOJE: I know.
EMH: What's Level White? Some kind of patient recovery area?
VOJE: It's the morgue.

[Chellick's office]

EMH: I demand an explanation for the death of that boy.
CHELLICK: I'm responsible for thousands of patients. You'll have to be more specific.
EMH: His name was Tebbis, Patient R twelve.
CHELLICK: Acute chromo-viral disease.
EMH: He was recovering.
CHELLICK: Apparently, he developed complications.
EMH: What kind of complications?
CHELLICK: A secondary infection. It spread rapidly.
EMH: How was it treated?
CHELLICK: It wasn't. The patient had exceeded his medication allotment. It seems someone had given him unauthorised injections. Did you think I wouldn't find out?
EMH: Don't you have any ethical standards?
CHELLICK: You are hardly in a position to speak to me of ethics. Lying, stealing. Any other crimes you wish to confess?
EMH: I was trying to save lives.
CHELLICK: And I am trying to save a society. Do you really think Patient R twelve is going to help me do that?
EMH: His name was Tebbis.
CHELLICK: He wasn't contributing. He was a drain on resources.
EMH: You're not just rationing health care here. You're getting rid of the sick and the weak.
CHELLICK: If the boy had been fit, he would have survived.
EMH: Why don't you just put a phaser to their heads?
CHELLICK: We're healers, not killers.
EMH: I'm going to expose you.
CHELLICK: To whom, the people who employ me? They brought me here to make the hard choices they don't want to make. From now on, I'm restricting you to Level Blue. You've done enough damage on Red.
EMH: You mean those patients that I treated? Yes, that was inconsiderate of me.
CHELLICK: It was. You managed to exceed their annual medication allotment in a matter of days. They're being sent home.
EMH: They'll die.
CHELLICK: You should have considered the consequences of your actions.
EMH: Please, don't make them suffer for my mistakes. It won't happen again.
CHELLICK: I'm making certain of that. From now on, your time will be strictly regulated.
EMH: Meaning what?
CHELLICK: I've interfaced your holomatrix with the Allocator. Starting now, it will determine where you go, when you go and what you do when you get there.
ALLOCATOR: The medical hologram will now commence treatment on Level Blue.

[Level Blue]

(The EMH appears next to a bed.)
ALLOCATOR: You have six minutes to treat Patient B three.

[Brig]

GAR: I don't know where he is.
TUVOK: Not now, perhaps, but you know where you took him.
GAR: The last time I saw him he was in your Sickbay.
TUVOK: If you refuse to cooperate, your knowledge of his location can be extracted.
GAR: How?
TUVOK: A mind meld.
GAR: What's that?
TUVOK: An invasive and disturbing procedure.
NEELIX: Dinnertime!
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I am in the middle of an interrogation.
NEELIX: Commander, you know better than anyone that Starfleet has strict guidelines about allowing prisoners to eat.
TUVOK: Very well. I'll wait.
(Neelix enters the cell.)
NEELIX: There we are. I'm glad to see you enjoying a meal. When you got sick last time I thought my food was to blame, until I realised it was just a ruse for you to get close to the Doctor. I used Talaxian Wormroot as the base. I'm glad you like it. Some people react badly.
(Gar feels unwell.)
GAR: React how?
NEELIX: Oh, dear, I hope you're not getting sick. If it's the wormroot, it's going to get a lot worse.
GAR: What have you done to me?
NEELIX: The usual symptoms are abdominal spasms, which increase in severity for thirty hours. Forty at the most.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Sickbay.
NEELIX: Don't worry Mister Tuvok, it's not fatal. It's horribly unpleasant, but there's an antidote.
GAR: Then give it to me.
NEELIX: Unfortunately, our doctor is the only one authorised to administer it. Maybe if you remembered where he was?
(Tuvok takes Neelix aside.)
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, have you deliberately poisoned this man?
NEELIX: Relax. He's just having gas pains.
TUVOK: Your actions are not only against regulations
NEELIX: Didn't I hear someone threaten a mind meld?
TUVOK: I was merely trying to encourage the suspect to be more forthcoming.
NEELIX: I think he's getting all the encouragement he needs.

[Level Red]

ORDERLY: Excuse me, Doctor.
VOJE: What is it?
ORDERLY: I need to prepare this patient for discharge.
VOJE: I'm not finished with him yet.
MED TECH: But Chellick's orders are to
VOJE: Are to discharge the patient at the end of the shift. The shift isn't over, is it?
MED TECH: No, sir, but I need time in order to
VOJE: I'll tell you when he's ready.
ALLOCATOR: Doctor Voje, report to Level Blue to assist Doctor Dysek in surgery.

[Level Blue]

(The EMH is scanning a patient when Voje comes out of the lift.)
EMH: Voje.
VOJE: I didn't realise that any of this even existed.
EMH: I need to talk to you.
VOJE: I don't have time. I just got a message from the Allocator that Dysek needs me.
EMH: I'm the one who sent for you. I used his access codes.
VOJE: Oh.
EMH: I need you to smuggle my mobile emitter off Level Blue.
ALLOCATOR: Time has expired for treatment of Patient B one. Proceed to Patient B three. The medical hologram has one minute to treat Patient B three.
(The EMH appears next to that patient, and walks back to Voje.)
EMH: You have to help me.
VOJE: Twelve patients on Level Red are being sent home because of you.
EMH: That's why we have to hurry. We may still be able to save them.
VOJE: You've already endangered my patients and now you're asking me to risk my career? Why should I help you?
EMH: Because I have a plan to heal those patients. That's what doctors do. We heal. So choose. What kind of doctor are you going to be?
ALLOCATOR: The medical hologram has thirty seconds to deactivation.
EMH: Do you hear that?
VOJE: How can I get you off this level?
EMH: Deactivate my mobile emitter and put it in inside this selenide medkit. It'll shield the signature.
VOJE: And then what?
EMH: Take it to Level Red and reactivate me.
VOJE: What are you going to do once you get to Level Red?
ALLOCATOR: The medical hologram has ten seconds to deactivation.
EMH: There's no time to explain. You'll have to trust me.
(Voje does as he is asked.)

[Level Red]

CHELLICK: I suspect young Doctor Voje helped you escape.
EMH: He had nothing to do with it.
CHELLICK: No matter. You're becoming far too troublesome. I'm going to have to deactivate your programme.
(Chellick reaches for the mobile emitter. The EMH grabs his arm, pulls him down across the console and injects him.)
EMH: Voje!
VOJE: What's wrong with him? What are you doing?
EMH: A little experiment in empathy.
VOJE: You told me you were just developing new treatment protocols.
EMH: A single protocol, actually.
(They put Chellick into bed.)
CHELLICK: You're only making things worse for yourself.
EMH: As a matter of fact, I'm making things worse for you. I'm going to make you a patient in your own hospital.
CHELLICK: What was in that injector?
EMH: A neural blocker combined with the same virus that afflicted Tebbis.
VOJE: I trusted you.
EMH: And Tebbis trusted me. You remember Tebbis, don't you? Patient R twelve? Maybe this will jog your memory. (The EMH pushes Chellick's bed to the wall scanner.)
VOJE: What are you doing?
ALLOCATOR: Patient R twelve. Species, Dinaal. Identity, Tebbis.
CHELLICK: This is ridiculous. I'm not Tebbis!
EMH: But the Allocator thinks you are.
VOJE: How did you
EMH: Simple, the Allocator identifies patients by reading blood factors. I altered Chellick's by injecting him with antigens from Tebbis. Now, why don't we see if we can get your condition treated? Requesting one cytoglobin injection for Patient R twelve.
ALLOCATOR: Treatment denied.
CHELLICK: I order you to medicate me now.
EMH: Ordinarily, I would. But if the Allocator says no.
CHELLICK: Is this some sort of revenge?
EMH: Not revenge. Leverage. I want enough cytoglobin to cure every infected patient on this level.
CHELLICK: We don't have an adequate supply.
EMH: There's plenty on Level Blue.
CHELLICK: Where it's being used to prevent arterial aging.
EMH: Those patients will survive without it, but a dozen people on this level won't. I will not let them die.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Entering orbit.
JANEWAY: Scan for the Doctor's signature.

[Level Red]

(Voje scans Chellick.)
VOJE: He's dying.
EMH: As soon as we get the cytoglobin we'll be able to treat all the Level Red patients, including him.
VOJE: You said it yourself. Doctors heal. We don't make patients sick.
EMH: I don't know any other way to help these people.
CHELLICK: Doctor Voje, I need the medicine now.
VOJE: Sir, I only have a Level Red clearance. You know I'm not authorised.
CHELLICK: Then find someone who is.

[Bridge]

TORRES: I've got him. He's aboard a vessel above the northern continent.
JANEWAY: Can you get a lock?
TORRES: It's not going to be easy. His programme seems to be interfaced with the main computer.
JANEWAY: Hail the ship.
KIM: They're responding, audio only.
ALLOCATOR [OC]: This is Hospital Ship Four Two, Allocation Module Alpha.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the Starship Voyager. I would like to speak with someone regarding a member of my crew who is aboard your vessel.
ALLOCATOR [OC]: Administrator Chellick is currently unavailable.
JANEWAY: Then may I speak with someone else?
ALLOCATOR [OC]: Only Administrator Chellick is authorised to communicate with alien species.

[Level Red]

DYSEK: Are we having a problem here?
CHELLICK: Dysek. Finally.
VOJE: I'm sorry. I had to tell him.
CHELLICK: What are you waiting for? Give me the cytoglobin.
DYSEK: I don't think I can.
CHELLICK: What are you saying?
DYSEK: Cytoglobin isn't authorised for Level Red patients.
CHELLICK: Dysek!
DYSEK: I don't want to break the rules.
CHELLICK: I made the rules!
DYSEK: Then you should be pleased I hold them in such high regard.

[Bridge]

TORRES: I'm sorry, Captain. I can't transport him without damaging his matrix.
JANEWAY: Then you'll have to go down there and get him.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
(He goes with Torres.)

[Level Red]

CHELLICK: Don't tell me you're allied with this defective hologram.
DYSEK: No, but he has given me insight into some of the intricacies of our system. For example, did you know if I don't request enough resources for Level Blue this month, I won't get what I need next month?
CHELLICK: What are you talking about?
EMH: You know, Doctor, one way to increase your allocation of resources on Level Blue would be to increase the number of patients. I know at least a dozen people who should be treated for arterial aging. Saving their lives would be just a side effect.
DYSEK: Hmm. Perhaps we should have them transferred to Level Blue.
EMH: If you're looking for a second opinion, I concur.
DYSEK: Well, Chellick, what do you think?
CHELLICK: It's absurd.
DYSEK: We'd have to transfer you to Level Blue as well. You'd get your cytoglobin.
(Two people beam in.)
CHAKOTAY: Doctor.
EMH: It's nice to see some friendly faces.
CHAKOTAY: We're going to get you out of here.
TORRES: Who do we talk to about accessing the main computer?
EMH: I'll be with you in a moment. I'm with a patient. Do we have an agreement?
CHELLICK: Yes.

[Sickbay]

EMH: You've managed to stay well while I was away. I'm giving you a clean bill of health.
SEVEN: You were only away four days.
EMH: A lot can happen in four days. Injuries, infections, malfunctions.
SEVEN: As you said, I'm fine. Thank you.
EMH: I was wondering if you'd mind doing me a favour? I'd like you to give me a check-up.
SEVEN: Have you been experiencing problems?
EMH: No. But as you said, I've been off the ship for a while, interfaced with an alien computer.
SEVEN: Your programme appears to be operating within normal parameters.
EMH: Really? What about over the past several days?
SEVEN: There's no indication of diminished capacity.
EMH: No problems with my ethical subroutines?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: I see.
SEVEN: You seem disappointed.
EMH: While I was aboard that ship, I poisoned a man.
SEVEN: Deliberately?
EMH: Yes. I was trying to force him to let me treat patients who were dying.
SEVEN: You were prepared to sacrifice an individual to benefit a collective.
EMH: No offence, Seven, but I don't exactly aspire to Borg ideals.
SEVEN: You were hoping your behaviour was the result of a malfunction. I'm sorry Doctor, but I must give you a clean bill of health.


S7 E6
Inside Man
Stardate: 54208.3
Original Airdate: 8 November 2000

Captain's log, stardate 54208.3. Last month's datastream from Starfleet never arrived, so the crew is looking forward to this one with even more anticipation than usual. We could all use some news from home.
[Corridor]

PARIS: There he is. The man of the hour.
KIM: You sure are in a good mood.
PARIS: Well, rumour has it you snared the latest datastream last night.
KIM: Technically, it was this morning. Oh two hundred, to be exact.
PARIS: So, where's my mail, hmm? Oh, don't tell me you lost another one.
KIM: I didn't lose last month's datastream. It never arrived.
PARIS: So what's the hold up this time?
KIM: The transmission was a little larger than usual. It's jammed the transceivers. Seven and I have been up all night trying to download it.
PARIS: Harry, we can't go another month without mail.
KIM: Oh, you won't. Trust me.

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM: Any luck?
SEVEN: I've determined why we've been having difficulties.
KIM: A hologram. The transceiver wasn't designed to store photonic data. We have to get it out of there before it degrades.
SEVEN: What are you doing?
KIM: Tying the transceiver into the holodeck's pattern buffer.
SEVEN: Those systems aren't compatible. You'll depolarise the relays.
KIM: Starfleet wouldn't have sent this hologram if it weren't important. I'm sure it's worth a few burnt-out relays.
(Bang! goes a console.)
SEVEN: You've overloaded the transceiver.
KIM: But I saved the hologram.

[Holodeck]

KIM: Okay, ready when you are.
(The hologram appears.)
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Barclay?
REG: Er, no, but he did design me. I'm a walking, talking, problem-solving interactive hologram. You can call me Reg.
JANEWAY: It's nice to meet you, Reg.
REG: The pleasure's mine, Captain. Harry, Seven. I've been looking forward to working with you.
KIM: You have?
REG: I know, you were expecting letters from your friends and families. But with any luck, in a few days you'll be seeing them face to face. In three days' time, Voyager is going to be passing through grid eight nine eight, a sector of space occupied by a red giant star.
JANEWAY: Sensors detected it a few days ago.
REG: At this very moment, a team of Federation scientists is orbiting another red giant in the Alpha Quadrant. In seventy two hours, they will target its magnetic field with a verteron beam, creating a geodesic fold. As a result, a corresponding fold will open here in the magnetic field of the red giant that Voyager is approaching. Space will be punctured at these two points, creating a gateway between the Quadrants.
JANEWAY: Our shields are useless against geodesic radiation. We toyed with the idea of opening a fold ourselves, but it didn't take us long to realise we wouldn't survive the trip.
REG: A lot's happened in geodesic research since you've been gone. I've brought schematics for shield upgrades to deflect the radiation from the fold. Medical technology to provide additional protection for the crew. We've thought of everything.
SEVEN: Starfleet never mentioned you in any of the previous datastreams.
REG: Well, Lieutenant Barclay didn't want to raise your hopes in case the plan didn't live up to expectations. But lucky for you, it surpassed them.
JANEWAY: What about last month's datastream? Why didn't we receive it?
REG: Pathfinder tried sending an unabridged version of my programme. It overloaded the MIDAS array.
KIM: The only casualty this time was our transceiver.
REG: If everything goes according to plan, you won't need it anymore.
JANEWAY: If we were to attempt this, you'd need access to areas of this ship that aren't equipped with holo-emitters.
REG: Not to worry, Captain. We've thought of that too.

[Sickbay]

EMH: My emitter is your emitter.
(The EMH puts the mobile emitter onto Reg's sleeve.)
JANEWAY: Computer, transfer the Barclay hologram to the mobile emitter.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
REG: On Lieutenant Barclay's behalf, I thank you.
EMH: Just make sure to return it when we get to Earth. Ha, ha, ha.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're ready for you in the briefing room, Captain.
JANEWAY: Excuse us, Doctor.
EMH: I'm sure you have a full day planned, but if you have time, I'd like to get better acquainted.
REG: I'll stop by the first chance I get.
EMH: You'll know where to find me.

[Briefing room]

REG: This is our destination, red giant two three one three nine. The geodesic fold will open here, adjacent to the giant's northern pole. We'll have exactly sixteen seconds to take Voyager through.
JANEWAY: Reg has prepared a list of assignments. I expect you to give him your full cooperation.
REG: Mister Paris, you have the honour of plotting our course to Big Red Two. Lieutenant Torres, Commander Tuvok, I'd like you to start working on shield modifications. And in the meantime, I've asked the Doctor to prepare a series of inoculations that will protect the crew from the radiation.
SEVEN: We should discuss the possibility of applying Borg technology to Starfleet's plan. It could increase our chances of success.
REG: I look forward to hearing your thoughts.
CHAKOTAY: How long before the transceiver's back online?
KIM: No more than two hours.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll still have time to transmit a response to Starfleet.
JANEWAY: Keep us posted. I'd like to send Lieutenant Barclay a little thank you note for all his hard work.
NEELIX: Is there anything I can do, Reg?
REG: Your job might be the most important one of all. The next few days will be difficult. The crew will be working extremely long hours. They're going to need an experienced morale officer to keep their spirits high.
NEELIX: You can count on me.
REG: If this were any other ship, I'd have my doubts. But this is Voyager, the Miracle Ship. You've survived six years in the Delta Quadrant. You've evaded the Kazon, the Vidiians, the Hirogen, you've even faced down the Borg. I think, with a little teamwork, we can pull off one more miracle and take Voyager home.

[Corridor]

KIM: I can taste my mom's cooking.
PARIS: Don't forget what the hologram said, Harry. This is Voyager.
KIM: The Miracle Ship.
PARIS: Not when it comes to getting us home. Our shortcuts have a tendency to blow up in our faces.
KIM: That's looking on the bright side.
PARIS: Remember Arturis and his quantum slipstream drive? Or how about the telepathic pitcher plant that made us think we were on our way home right before it tried to eat the ship?
KIM: This is the best opportunity we've had.
PARIS: Yeah, which is why we'll probably end up in the Gamma Quadrant.
KIM: I'll remind you of that when we get back to Earth.
PARIS: Don't say I didn't warn you.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: When a Borg Cube enters a transwarp conduit, it's subject to extreme gravimetric shear. To compensate, the Borg project a structural integrity field ahead of the Cube. By modifying Voyager's deflector, we may be able to do the same.
REG: No one at Starfleet would have thought of this. So, what's the first thing you're going to do when you get back?
SEVEN: Begin repairs to Voyager. Even with the structural integrity field, it's likely the ship will suffer significant damage.
REG: Yes, of course, but there are people at Utopia Planitia who will take care of that. There are Engineering crews and technicians.
SEVEN: Are you implying that I'm superfluous?
REG: Of course not. I only meant that, if you're too busy working, you're going to miss all the welcome home hoopla. Starfleet's planning parties, ceremonies and speeches. There's, there's a ticker-tape parade down Market Street.
SEVEN: I won't be attending any of those events.
REG: But, you'd be the guest of honour.
SEVEN: When I first arrived on Voyager, it was difficult for the crew to accept me. I'm anticipating a similar welcome on Earth.
REG: You don't have any idea, do you? I didn't mention this earlier. I didn't want to hurt anybody's feelings. You are the one who people are most looking forward to seeing.
SEVEN: That's difficult to believe.
REG: Why?
SEVEN: I was Borg.
REG: Exactly. You were Borg. But you escaped, and despite incredible odds, you managed to reclaim your humanity. No one's ever done that before. You're famous.
SEVEN: Fame is irrelevant.
REG: Maybe. But you've given hope to everyone who's ever lost somebody to the Borg. You've inspired millions.
SEVEN: If you think my participation in the hoopla would be beneficial to others, then I'll comply.

[Pathfinder lab]

HARKINS: Is this going to take much longer, Reg?
BARCLAY: Well, the computer is still inputting data. That should do it. Right. Computer, display the intended trajectory of the datastream transmitted at oh six hundred this morning. Now, display the actual trajectory, and identify the termination point.
COMPUTER: The trajectory ends in sector three nine five.
BARCLAY: Four two, grid eight. Does that sound familiar? That's exactly where the datastream dissipated last month. There is something there. There is something preventing the datastream from reaching Voyager. Er, a micro-wormhole, a radiogenic field.
HARKINS: Long range scans didn't pick up anything unusual.
BARCLAY: Still, we could send a ship to investigate. We could confirm my theory.
HARKINS: What about my theory, Reg? The hologram was too complex. It caused the datastreams to degrade before they reached their destination.
BARCLAY: Well, to be honest I, I don't agree. The truth is, we don't know what happened to my hologram.
HARKINS: Then let's stick to what we do know. For the second month in a row, we tried sending your hologram to Voyager. And for the second month in a row, it failed to get there.
BARCLAY: And I want to know why, so it doesn't happen a third time.
HARKINS: It won't happen a third time. Next month we go back to standard transmissions.
BARCLAY: But a holographic matrix carries twice the information, interact with the crew.
HARKINS: Admiral Paris wants us to send more practical data, like tactical upgrades, letters from the crew's families.
BARCLAY: But, Pete.
HARKINS: Sending a hologram to Voyager was a good idea but it didn't work. It's time to move on.
(Next day, Harkins is escorting a group of schoolchildren.)
HARKINS: And this is the research lab where most of Pathfinder's homework gets done. All the datastreams are compressed here and then transmitted all the way to the Delta Quadrant. Your teacher tells me you've been studying some of the Delta Quadrant races that Voyager's described to us. Who can name one for me?
GIRL 1: The Talaxians.
HARKINS: Very good.
GIRL 2: The Ocampa.
HARKINS: That's right. Who else?
BARCLAY: The Borg! The Borg! They assimilated my hologram. That's how it disappeared.
HARKINS: Reg, now isn't the time.
BARCLAY: Look at this. Last month, a spacecraft passed within twenty metres of the MIDAS array just hours before we sent the first hologram.
HARKINS: What is your point?
BARCLAY: Twenty metres. It's awfully close, don't you think?
HARKINS: Ensign.
(The Ensign ushers the schoolchildren out of the lab.)
BARCLAY: The Borg must have sent a transwarp probe to steal my hologram. Maybe because they, they thought that it was carrying anti-Borg technology to Voyager.
HARKINS: It wasn't the Borg, Reg.
BARCLAY: Then it was the Romulans using a cloaked ship. They've been curious about Voyager for years.
HARKINS: That is enough.
BARCLAY: But, you
HARKINS: I am sorry your idea didn't work, but I can't have you going off on a tangent. Not again. You'll be no good to Pathfinder or Voyager. How much leave do you have saved up?
BARCLAY: Not that much. Fifty, maybe sixty days.
HARKINS: Take a week. Go home. Try to relax.
BARCLAY: But, Pete!
HARKINS: No! That was not a request, Lieutenant.
BARCLAY: Maybe I'll go somewhere. Take a vacation.
HARKINS: Now that is the most sensible thing I've heard you say all day. My cousin has a beach house in Malaysia. She'd be happy to lend it to you.
BARCLAY: Thanks, er, but I have someplace else in mind.

[Sickbay]

REG: You, you wanted to see me?
EMH: I've been going over the instructions from Starfleet Medical. As far as I can tell, their new inoculations aren't much different from run-of-the-mill radiogenic vaccines. I don't think they'll protect the crew.
REG: Did you try incorporating the synthetic antigen?
EMH: Yes, but it only improved the resistance by ten percent.
REG: That should be enough.
EMH: We can't afford to be cavalier, Reg. If these treatments don't work, the crew will wind up liquefied.
REG: You're forgetting that the inoculations aren't designed to work alone. They were intended to work in combination with the shield modifications. It's the medicinal ying to the shield's yang.
EMH: And what if the yang doesn't work?
REG: That's not going to happen. Now, listen. Lieutenant Barclay has a special affinity for this crew. So do I. I promise you, we won't let them down.
EMH: Of course you won't. Tell me, do you also share Lieutenant Barclay's affinity for golf?
REG: We have identical handicaps.
EMH: Well, if you're not busy later, perhaps we can play nine holes on the holodeck.
REG: It's tempting, but I still have a few dozen progress reports to look over.
EMH: In that case, maybe you could look over them here so that I could borrow the mobile emitter.
REG: Providing that the rest of the day's work goes smoothly, consider it yours.
(Reg leaves quickly.)
EMH: I thought it was mine.

[Astrometrics lab]

REG: Commander Chakotay tells me that you finished repairing the transceiver.
TORRES: We were just about to send the captain's reply to Lieutenant Barclay.
REG: Do you have enough room to include a progress report from me?
KIM: I think we can squeeze that in.
REG: Computer, download Barclay hologram file zero one to the datablock.
COMPUTER: Download complete.
TORRES: Transmitting.
(The MIDAS array receives the transmission. So does a small ship very close by.)

[Ferengi ship]

GEGIS: It's about time.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Greetings from the Delta Quadrant, Lieutenant. You'll be happy to know that your hologram reached us safely.
GEGIS: Get to the important part.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: And we've begun to implement Starfleet's.
(Fast forward.)
REG [on monitor]: In accordance with the seventy fourth Rule of Acquisition, Knowledge Equals Profit, I've enclosed the specifications you've requested. See you soon.
(Next, a picture of Seven of Nine.)
NUNK:  Oh, look at those hands. I bet she gives great oo-mox.
YEGGIE: Too bad she'll be dead when she gets here.
GEGIS: Forget the hands. Show me the nanoprobes. How many are there?
YEGGIE: Three point six million.
NUNK: That's twenty percent more than we predicted.
YEGGIE: Three point six million nanoprobes at six bars of latinum per unit that comes to.
GEGIS: More profit than we ever dreamed of.

[Beach]

(A mixture of species are enjoying the sun and sand. A white skinned waiter with green spots brings a tray to a man with thick blue sunscreen on his nose.)
WAITER: Your drinks, sir.
BARCLAY: Thank you.
(He takes them to a half-Betazoid lying on a lounger.)
BARCLAY: Something to drink, ma'am?
TROI: I'm fine, thanks.
BARCLAY: Are you sure? I've got a chocolate passion punch with your name on it.
(Troi opens her eyes.)
TROI: Reg?
BARCLAY: Surprise! Where's Commander Riker?
TROI: He doesn't arrive until Friday.
BARCLAY: Oh.
TROI: The question is, what are you doing here?
BARCLAY: I just had some time off. Your letter made this place sound fun. I just thought I'd join you.
TROI: Do you have any idea how inappropriate it is to follow your therapist on vacation.
BARCLAY: Please, they might be watching.
TROI: Who?
BARCLAY: The Borg, the Romulans. I'm not sure yet. Please, Deanna, I need your help.
(Later, taking a walk.)
BARCLAY: Commander Harkins is usually willing to hear me out, but this time he wouldn't even look at my evidence
TROI: I'm not sure any of this qualifies as evidence, Reg.
BARCLAY: You don't believe me, either. You think I'm imagining this, just like Pete.
TROI: The last time I saw you, you were laughing, telling jokes. You even sang a duet with Data.
BARCLAY: It was Commander LaForge's birthday party.
TROI: You were a completely different Reg that night.
BARCLAY: Well, things were better then.
TROI: How?
BARCLAY: Well, for one thing I'd just finished the matrix for my hologram and I showed Geordi some of the specs that night. He said he was proud of me.
TROI: What else?
BARCLAY: Oh, the Dragons had just won the pennant, and I was still seeing Leosa.
TROI: You mentioned her at the party. A teacher, right?
BARCLAY: Everything was going so well. My job, my personal life. I started to think maybe my luck was changing.
TROI: And then you lost your hologram.
BARCLAY: Admiral Paris was furious. He said we'd wasted a transmission to Voyager. Pete talked him into giving us another chance, but there was so much pressure after that.
TROI: Did it put a strain on your relationship with Leosa?
BARCLAY: She left me.
TROI: Oh, I'm sorry.
BARCLAY: I went to her apartment. She was gone. No furniture, no forwarding address. Bot even a Dear Reg letter.
TROI: That must have been very upsetting.
BARCLAY: It was just my luck, right? Lose the hologram and the girl.
TROI: Tell me more about Leosa.
BARCLAY: Oh, you would have liked her. She was sweet, she was thoughtful, and such a wonderful listener. She would let me, let me go on for hours.
TROI: What did you talk about?
BARCLAY: Oh, she was fascinated by my work at Pathfinder. And, er, she didn't, er, she didn't find any of it boring. She made me feel interesting.
TROI: What do you feel when we talk about her now?
BARCLAY: Oh, sadness, I suppose. A little confusion.
TROI: I'm sensing something else. Something beneath the surface.
BARCLAY: What?
TROI: I think you might be sensing it, too.
BARCLAY: What?
TROI: Suspicion, Reg. You suspect her of something.
BARCLAY: I suspect that she's happier without me if that's what you mean.
TROI: You think Leosa had something to do with your disappearing hologram but you can't bring yourself to admit it. That's why you're projecting your suspicions onto others. You're in denial. If there's any chance Leosa did breach Pathfinder security, you need to tell your superiors.
BARCLAY: I'd be humiliated again.
TROI: I'll go with you.
BARCLAY: What about your vacation?
TROI: I'll be back here before Will arrives.
BARCLAY: Do you really think it's possible that Leosa stole my hologram?
TROI: Why would she do that?
BARCLAY: Maybe, maybe she wanted something to remember me by.

Captain's log, supplemental. With the help of the Barclay hologram, we've nearly completed the modifications to Voyager. As for Reg, he's becoming extremely popular with the crew.

[Mess hall]

REG as JANEWAY: Imagine my disappointment when I discovered that Lieutenant Paris had eaten all the scrambled eggs. It was pure, unadulterated gluttony. Gastronomic conduct unbecoming a Starfleet officer. He knows it's my favourite breakfast, but he ate them anyway. We have an egg-mergency here, people. I want to know what you plan to do about it.
NEELIX: Maybe I can replicate some more, Captain.
REG as JANEWAY: Do it!
(Laughter and applause.)
REG: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.
TORRES: He's not only programmed to get us home, he does impressions.
REG: You see, it's always bothered Lieutenant Barclay that he was uncomfortable in large groups, so he designed me to be the life of the party.
KIM: Hope he's not too shy. He's going to have a hundred and fifty new friends when we get back home.
PARIS: If we get home, Harry. If.
KIM: Pardon my friend here. He's convinced we're destined to live out our days in the Delta Quadrant.
REG as TUVOK: Your pessimism is illogical. Perhaps a mind-meld would help to alleviate your concern.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Reg. Please report to Holodeck two.
REG: On my way.

[Holodeck]

(The EMH is in tweed plus fours and a bow tie. PG Wodehouse would approve.)
EMH: I was starting to think you'd forgotten our tee-time. So, what'll it be? Pebble Beach at sunset? The back nine at Gedi Prime?
REG: Actually Doctor, I'm afraid something's come up. I'm going to meet with Seven of Nine.
EMH: Oh, really?
REG: She going to teach me to play Kadis-kot.
EMH: Ah, Reg. When I agreed to lend you my emitter, I did it with the understanding that you needed it for official business.
REG: What's your point?
EMH: My point is that board games aren't exactly crucial to your mission.
REG: And I suppose golf is?
EMH: Reg?
REG: I'll tell you what. When we get back home we'll play as much golf as you like. Until then let's try to keep out of each other's hair. What do you say?

[Admiral Paris's office]

(A blonde woman in a revealing red dress is sitting in a comfortable chair.)
ADMIRAL PARIS: State your name for the record.
LEOSA: Leosa. L e o s a.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Occupation?
LEOSA: Dabo girl.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Dabo?
LEOSA: It's a Ferengi game. I work aboard one of their casino ships.
BARCLAY: You, you told me you were a teacher.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Is this true?
LEOSA: Sometimes I'm a teacher, sometimes I'm a Bajoran Vedek. Whatever the customer wants.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Lieutenant Barclay tells me that the two of you spent a significant amount of time together. Did he ever discuss his work at Pathfinder with you?
LEOSA: He wouldn't talk about anything else. It was always holograms this and cyclic pulsars that.
ADMIRAL PARIS: And who did you share that information with?
LEOSA: Nobody.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I have a theory. Would you like to hear it?
LEOSA: Why not?
ADMIRAL PARIS: I think that some of your Ferengi friends found a way to profit from Lieutenant Barclay's work. I think you were encouraged to get close to him. And when you had all the information you needed, you left.
LEOSA: I left Reg for one simple reason. He's boring.
(Barclay leaves.)
LEOSA: Don't tell me you never noticed.
TROI: With the Admiral's permission, I'd like a moment alone with Leosa.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I don't think therapy is what this woman needs, Counsellor.
TROI: Five minutes, Admiral.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Five minutes.
(Paris and his aide leave.)
TROI: Did you know I'm a Betazoid? I'm empathic, which means I know when people are lying. Tell me, what's the longest you've ever been incarcerated?
LEOSA: You can't send me to prison, Counsellor. I didn't do anything wrong.
TROI: Maybe not, but I can order you held for psychiatric observation. Extended observation.
LEOSA: I may not be a Betazoid but I work a Dabo table, and I know when somebody's bluffing.
TROI: Try me.

[Pathfinder lab]

TROI: You were correct, Admiral. The Ferengi did steal Reg's hologram. Twice. This is the ship you need to look for.
(Troi hands over a PADD. Later, that ship is on the screen.)
LEOSA: That's it. That's Nunk's ship.
HARKINS: Nunk?
LEOSA: My employer.
HARKINS: Scans indicate they've been in the vicinity of that star for the last forty three hours. Why?
LEOSA: I don't know.
TROI: She's telling the truth. For once.
ADMIRAL PARIS: The Ferengi wouldn't have stolen the hologram if they didn't think it was valuable. They're probably waiting to rendezvous with a buyer. Are there any Starfleet ships in that area?
HARKINS: The Carolina's point seven light years away. At maximum warp it could reach them in two hours.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Open a channel.
HARKINS: Computer, open a secure channel to the Carolina.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Tell Captain Peterson to adjust his course immediately.
BARCLAY: Was everything that happened between us a lie?
LEOSA: Not everything. Just the parts where I expressed affection for you.
BARCLAY: Oh.  
LEOSA: Oh, if it makes any difference, it wasn't personal. It was just business.
BARCLAY: What exactly is a broken heart worth these days, hmm?
LEOSA: Ten percent.
BARCLAY: Of what?
LEOSA: Profits from the nanoprobes.
BARCLAY: Nanoprobes? Borg nanoprobes?
LEOSA: Gegis says they're worth two billion times their weight in latinum.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: I don't think I quite understand the problem, Doctor.
EMH: Are you aware that he's been doing impressions of you?
JANEWAY: You should hear his Tuvok. It's eerie.
EMH: It's disrespectful.
JANEWAY: What do you want me to do, deactivate him?
EMH: Just long enough to run a diagnostic of his programme. His recent behaviour may be indicative of a more serious problem.
JANEWAY: I haven't seen any evidence of that.
EMH: Of course not. In front of you he's all smiles. But I've seen him be rude and careless. Two traits the real Lieutenant Barclay never exhibited.
JANEWAY: I know the real Barclay is a friend of yours, and I'm sorry if the holographic version hasn't lived up to your expectations, but that's hardly reason to deactivate him.
EMH: Are the lives of a hundred and fifty crewmen reason enough? Maybe you're right. Maybe I am overreacting. But what if I'm right? We're less than a light year away from the geodesic fold. Do you want to risk being led through it by a malfunctioning hologram?

[Astrometrics lab]

REG: Captain, you saved us a comm. call.
SEVEN: We're ready to bring the enhanced shielding online.
JANEWAY: Good work. I need a moment alone with Reg. Your programme has been running continuously for how many hours now?
(Seven leaves.)
REG: Fifty six hours, eleven minutes and one seconds.
JANEWAY: I'd like to run a diagnostic of your matrix. Make sure you haven't suffered any degradation over the last few days.
REG: This isn't the, er, Doctor's idea, is it?
JANEWAY: He expressed some concern for your well being, yes.
REG: I bet he did.
JANEWAY: Believe me, Reg, the crew and I are grateful for everything you've done, but we need to take every precaution.
REG: I understand perfectly. If the ship's Doctor thinks I need a check-up, who am I to argue?

[Pathfinder lab]

TROI: Why are you hiding in the corner?
BARCLAY: I'm not hiding. I'm working on a way to foil the Ferengi's' plans.
TROI: Reg, there's nothing left to foil. The Carolina will have them in custody within the hour.
BARCLAY: Leosa said the Ferengi were going to be selling Borg nanoprobes.
TROI: What does that have to do with Voyager?
BARCLAY: They have a Borg crewman. Think about it. The Ferengi stole the original Barclay hologram a month ago. That gave them time to reprogramme it and then smuggle it to Voyager in the next transmission.
TROI: Reprogramme it to do what?
BARCLAY: Steal Seven of Nine's nanoprobes. For all we know he could be dissecting her right now.
TROI: What would the Ferengi want with assimilation technology?
BARCLAY: Oh, nanoprobes aren't just for assimilating. They can reanimate necrotic tissue, slow down the aging process. They'd be priceless for the Ferengi.
TROI: Reg, even if the Ferengi did reprogramme your hologram to steal the nanoprobes, how would they get their hands on them? Voyager's thirty thousand light years away.
BARCLAY: I haven't figured that part out yet. Maybe they discovered a wormhole, or a subspace corridor.
TROI: Have you mentioned any of this to Commander Harkins?
BARCLAY: Not yet. I can't. If I don't bring him hard evidence, he'll just think that I'm fantasising. For the time being, we need to keep this between us.

[Holodeck]

(The holographic check up is underway.)
REG: That tickles, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Sorry, Reg. We're almost finished.
(The EMH is transferred in.)
EMH: Have you identified any problems yet?
TORRES: I've gone over his entire matrix. He's working perfectly.
REG: Maybe I'm not the one who needs a diagnostic, hmm?
EMH: I'm a big enough hologram to admit when I'm wrong. I'm sorry I doubted you.
REG: If anyone is owed an apology, it's you. I should've been more sensitive. Friends?
EMH: Friends.
(They shake hands.)
REG: Now that that's out of the way. Captain, what do you say we get this ship back to Earth?

[Ferengi ship]

GEGIS: It's time. Initiate the geodesic pulse.

[Pathfinder lab]

(On the screen, they see the Ferengi firing their energy into the red giant.)
ADMIRAL PARIS: Would someone care to tell me what that is?
BARCLAY: It's a geodesic fold, Admiral. That's how they're going to get the nanoprobes.

[Bridge]

(The fold is opening in the other red giant.)
PARIS: Two million kilometres and closing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us to one quarter impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Astrometrics. Bring the enhanced shielding 

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Online.
REG: Aye, Commander. What's wrong?
SEVEN: The fold contains three radiation types we didn't account for. The shield modifications are not enough.
REG: The shields were modified to work in combination with the inoculations. We'll be fine.
SEVEN: If the shields fail, the inoculations will be irrelevant. Astrometrics to the bridge.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
(Reg sticks his holo-fingers into Seven's head, knocking her out. He doesn't bother to catch her as she falls.)
JANEWAY [OC]: What is it, Seven?
REG as SEVEN: There was a problem, Captain, but I've corrected it.

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: I'm using the MIDAS array to tap into the Ferengi ship's sensors. They're receiving telemetry through the fold.
HARKINS: If I', reading this correctly, Voyager's headed right for it.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Captain Janeway knows better than to take her ship into such a dangerous anomaly.
BARCLAY: If the Ferengi did alter my hologram, then it might, might be possible for him to have taken over the ship.
HARKINS: One hologram against an entire crew?
BARCLAY: He may have found a way to incapacitate the crew, or to commandeer the ship's systems, but either way we've got to get the Carolina to close the fold.
ADMIRAL PARIS: The Carolina isn't equipped to do that.
BARCLAY: Then they'll have to commandeer the Ferengi ship and do it from there.
HARKINS: The Carolina's still half a light year away. They won't make it in time.
TROI: Can we transmit a message? Warn Voyager?
BARCLAY: Not through a geodesic fold.

[Ferengi ship]

NUNK: Our own starship, with multiphasic shielding and a gold-pressed latinum hull.
YEGGIE: We'll have enough left over to buy a fleet of casino ships.
GEGIS: I have a better idea. Lobe enlargements, heh, heh, heh.
NUNK: Shush.
YEGGIE: Ooh, someone's hailing us.
GEGIS: Who?
YEGGIE: I can't tell. There's too much interference.
GEGIS: Answer it.
YEGGIE: It's the hologram.
NUNK: You said it was impossible to communicate through the fold.
GEGIS: I thought it was. I guess I did a better job of reprogramming the hologram than I thought.
(Barclay is standing in front of Voyager's warp core.)
BARCLAY [on viewscreen]: We must close the geodesic fold immediately. Captain Janeway has found out about our plan.
NUNK: If that's true, then why is she still headed for the fold?
BARCLAY [on viewscreen]: Because she

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]

BARCLAY: Found a way to protect her ship.

[Ferengi ship]

GEGIS: Impossible.
BARCLAY [on viewscreen]: You don't know Janeway. She's uncanny when it comes to shields.

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]

BARCLAY: She's furious. She said she was going to kill

[Ferengi ship]

BARCLAY [on viewscreen]: Whoever tried to harm her crew. I strongly suggest you abort the mission.
NUNK: What should we do?
GEGIS: Go to warp before Janeway makes it through.
BARCLAY [on viewscreen]: No, you mustn't. Voyager has Borg interquadrental

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]

BARCLAY: Warp drives and Hirogen hunting sensors

[Ferengi ship]

BARCLAY [on viewscreen]: And Vidiian Phage torpedoes. No matter where you run, Voyager will find you. Your only hope is to close the fold.
(They do.)

[Pathfinder lab]

HARKINS: Harkins to Holodeck one.
BARCLAY [OC]: Go ahead, Pete.
HARKINS: It worked, Reg.

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]

HARKINS [OC]: They've started to close the fold. 
BARCLAY: Computer, end programme.

[Bridge]

KIM: Something's wrong, Captain.
REG: Astrometrics to the bridge. Why are we stopping?
JANEWAY: The fold's collapsing, Reg. We didn't make it in time.

[Astrometrics lab]

REG: It's not too late if we remodulate the shields.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I appreciate your determination, but we can't risk it. You did everything you could.
KIM: Captain, someone just initiated a site-to-site transport.
JANEWAY: Who?
KIM: Seven and Reg. They've beamed to an escape pod.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine. What's going on?
KIM: The pod's been launched.
JANEWAY: Put a tractor beam on it.
TUVOK: There is too much interference from the fold.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, can you get a transporter lock?

[Ferengi ship]

GEGIS: What now?
YEGGIE: There's something coming from the fold.
GEGIS: Voyager?
YEGGIE: No, it's too small.
NUNK: A Phage torpedo?
GEGIS: Raise shields. Brace for impact. (Thump!)
YEGGIE: It's an escape pod.
GEGIS: Maybe the hologram sent us the drone.
NUNK: Ooo.
GEGIS: Check what's in there.
YEGGIE: Nothing. No Borg corpse. No nanoprobes.
NUNK: No profit.

Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine has recovered from her injuries, and Reg has been deactivated. Until we finish analysing his programme, his motivations remain a mystery.

[Mess hall]

(Kim is prodding a slice of pie suspiciously. The filling is very green.)
PARIS: Making first contact with a new lifeform?
KIM: Mom's apple pie. Neelix thought a little home cooking might cheer me up.
TORRES: And?
KIM: I haven't worked up the courage to taste it yet. Have you figured out what went wrong with Reg?
TORRES: Well, Seven thinks our proximity to the fold degraded his matrix, but if you ask me, it was a recursive error in his logic subroutine.
(Kim tries the pie.)
KIM: Not bad. But it would have tasted better in San Francisco.
PARIS: If it'll make you feel any better, I'll let you in on a little secret. I was on the bridge this morning when we received a hail from an Iconian scientist. He claims to have a trans-dimensional gateway that can take us anywhere in the galaxy.
KIM: I'm not that gullible.
TORRES: It's true. I was there. The captain doesn't want us to get our hopes up, but personally I think we'll be home by the end of the week.
KIM: Are you serious?
TORRES: You were right about him.

[Pathfinder holodeck]

(Barclay is modifying his hologram.)
BARCLAY: Computer, install Barclay Security Protocol twenty one alpha.
COMPUTER: Installation complete.
(Troi walks in.)
REG: Identify yourself!
BARCLAY: Computer, deactivate Barclay programme. I'm sorry. I've been programming him with new security precautions so he can't be stolen again.
TROI: You seem to be off to a good start.
BARCLAY: I thought you'd be back at the beach.
TROI: Will and I decided to spend the rest of our vacation in Tiburon. We were wondering if you're free for dinner tonight.
BARCLAY: I, er, I wouldn't want to be a third nacelle.
TROI: Not possible. Will's bringing a friend for you. Her name's Maril. You're going to adore her.
BARCLAY: I'd like to, but I, I still have, er, dozens of protocols to install. Maybe next time.
TROI: Look Reg, I know Leosa hurt you, but hiding inside a hologrid isn't the answer. You need to get out, meet new people.
BARCLAY: This Maril wouldn't happen to be a Dabo girl, by any chance?
TROI: She's a teacher, actually. A real one.
BARCLAY: Are you sure?
TROI: Don't worry, Reg. We've taken security precautions.


S7 E7
Body and Soul
Stardate: 54238.3
Original Airdate: 15 November 2000

(A comet flies through space, its tail streaming out towards the Delta Flyer.)

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
(A piece of it is beamed into a sample jar. The ship shakes.)
EMH: Ensign Kim, please try and hold us steady. This material is extremely

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

EMH [OC]: Fragile.
KIM: Sorry, Doc. I'm doing the best I can.
EMH [OC]: Maybe I should've insisted

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

EMH: On a more experienced pilot, like Mister Paris.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

KIM: I'd give anything to trade places with him right now.
EMH [OC]: Seven, can you join me, please?
SEVEN: On my way.
KIM: I don't know if I can take three more days of chasing comets with him.
SEVEN: The time might pass more easily if we disable his vocal processor.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

EMH: I thought you might find this interesting.
(The EMH puts a small piece of comet under a microscope and calls the image up on a monitor.)
SEVEN: Preanimate biomatter.
EMH: Look deeper.
SEVEN: An undeveloped nucleus contained in a cytoplasmic matrix.
EMH: And buried deep inside that nucleus, primitive strands of DNA. The beginnings of life, Seven.
SEVEN: What's your point?
EMH: When I look at this, I don't see a mere cell. I see the potential for literature and art, empires and kingdoms.
SEVEN: Perhaps your visual subroutines are malfunctioning.
EMH: Someday, this cytoplasmic matrix may fall into the primordial sea of a distant world where it could ignite an evolutionary process. Eons from now, a creature not unlike you could emerge, look up at the stars and ask, who am I? How did I come to be? It's the miracle of creation, Seven. Doesn't that excite you?
(Shudder!)
EMH: Ensign Kim, I asked you to hold us steady.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

KIM: We're under attack! This is the Federation ship Delta Flyer. We're on a peaceful mission. Hold your fire.
RANEK [OC]: You're transporting a suspected photonic insurgent through Lokirrim space. Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
KIM: Photonic insurgent? If you're referring to the hologram, he's our doctor. Seven, we've lost thrusters.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

SEVEN: I'll try reinitialising the driver coils.
KIM [OC]: Voyager, this is the Flyer. Mayday.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

KIM: Come in.
COMPUTER: Subspace communications are offline.
SEVEN [OC]: It's a tractor beam.
KIM: Remodulate our shields.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

KIM [OC]: That should break us free.
SEVEN: Shields are down.
EMH: (flickering) What's happening?
SEVEN: They're using some kind of disruption field. It's decompiling your matrix.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

RANEK [OC]: Federation vessel, power down your systems and prepare to surrender the photonic.
KIM: Seven, they're pulling us in. You're going to have to hide the Doctor's programme.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

EMH: Do something, please.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

(Four armed people beam in. A woman speaks.)
JARYN: We don't want to hurt you. We're here for the insurgent.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

RANEK: Where's the photonic?
(Seven is more animated, and her voice uses more inflections.)
EMH-SEVEN: You decompiled his matrix. You murdered him.
KIM: Seven?
EMH-SEVEN: I'm sorry. There wasn't enough time.
JARYN: Biogenic material. It could be used to create viral weapons.
RANEK: Confiscate it.
EMH-SEVEN: Our Doctor was using these spores to synthesise new medicines, not weapons.
RANEK: What's this?
(Seven has the mobile emitter in her hand.)
EMH-SEVEN: It's my portable regeneration unit. I have a unique physiology. This device maintains my cybernetic systems.
RANEK: Have this analysed.
LOKIRRIM: Yes, sir.
JARYN: There's no one else aboard.
RANEK: Take them to detention, and secure their ship in the docking bay.
KIM: You got what you wanted. Let us go.
RANEK: Transporting photonics and manufacturing biogenic weapons are serious charges.
LOKIRRIM: Let's go.

[Lokirrim ship - corridor]

KIM: I want to talk to your superior.

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]

EMH-SEVEN: Careful, Ensign, or you'll fracture a metacarpal.
KIM: That'd be the least of our problems.
EMH-SEVEN: The situation is not as desperate as it appears.
KIM: Not as desperate? We're prisoners on an alien ship. Voyager has no idea we're missing, and the Doctor's been decompiled.
EMH-SEVEN: The reports of my decompilation have been greatly exaggerated.
KIM: Doc?
EMH-SEVEN: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Seven downloaded my programme into her cybernetic matrix. An interesting sensation, to say the least.
KIM: And now you're in control of Seven's body?
EMH-SEVEN: Total control, it seems.
KIM: What about Seven? Is she all right?
EMH-SEVEN: I scanned her before the aliens came aboard. Physiologically, she's fine. As for her consciousness, I'm assuming it's submerged, but there's no way to be sure until I vacate her systems and conduct a neurological exam.
KIM: Then we need the mobile emitter.
EMH-SEVEN: This experience will make a fascinating article for the Starfleet medical journal.
(S/he touches the cell forcefield.)
EMH-SEVEN: Ow!
KIM: Careful. That's not your body, remember?
EMH-SEVEN: I know Seven's senses were more acute than the average humanoid but, I had no idea. What is that?
KIM: What?
EMH-SEVEN: That smell.
KIM: I don't smell anything.
EMH-SEVEN: It could be an airborne toxin. Do you think they're trying to poison us?
(S/he sniffs Kim.)
EMH-SEVEN: It's you.
KIM: It's been a busy day. I guess I'm perspiring a little.
EMH-SEVEN: A little? Seven's had a busy day too, and she's come through it smelling like the proverbial rose.

Captain's log, stardate 54238.3. We've completed our maintenance layover at the Maldorian station and we're on our way to rendezvous with the Delta Flyer. We expect to reach them in forty eight hours.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok is trembling whilst trying to meditate. Paris is doing a medical scan.)
PARIS: Headache, fever, respiratory distress, tremors. It looks like some kind of virus.
TUVOK: It is not a virus.
PARIS: You want to tell me what's going on?
TUVOK: In the Doctor's database, you'll find a medication under file theta twelve alpha. Please, replicate it immediately.
PARIS: You know I can't give out medicine without knowing what it's for.
TUVOK: If you must know, I am suffering from a neurochemical imbalance.
PARIS: An imbalance.
TUVOK: It is native to my species.
PARIS: Ah. This wouldn't be the kind of imbalance that comes around once every seven years?
TUVOK: My pon farr is in the early stages. The urges are still controllable.
PARIS: You never fail to amaze me, Tuvok. A man of your advanced years still driven by the mating instinct?
TUVOK: Unlike in humans, the Vulcan libido increases with time.
PARIS: Well, I guess there has to be some kind of reward for all that Vulcan discipline.
TUVOK: The Doctor anticipated my needs and developed a treatment. Combined with meditation, it will enable me to control the symptoms.
PARIS: Well, if that doesn't work, there's always a cold sonic shower. I'll tell the captain that you'll be out of commission for a couple of days.
TUVOK: She will want to know why.
PARIS: Well, according to my tricorder, all we've got here is a mild case of the Tarkalean flu.
TUVOK: Thank you, Lieutenant.

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]

EMH-SEVEN: Mmm! I had no idea that eating was such a sensual experience. The tastes, the textures, feeling it slide down Seven's oesophagus. It's exquisite.
KIM: They're prison rations. My uniform probably tastes better.
EMH-SEVEN: You know, I was thinking. When we get back to Voyager, perhaps you and Seven could help me modify my physical parameters.
KIM: Why?
EMH-SEVEN: So I can eat, of course, like any other member of the crew.
KIM: There's just one small problem. You don't have a stomach. Where is the food going to go?
EMH-SEVEN: I believe we can construct a holographic stomach that can store the food for eventual recycling.
KIM: Maybe we should focus on something more productive, like getting out of here.
EMH-SEVEN: Relax, Ensign. Our shipmates have never let us down before. I'm sure the captain will clear up this little misunderstanding. In the meantime, are you going to finish that?
(Kim hands over his plate.)
JARYN: You. Come with us.
KIM: I'm the senior officer. If you're going to take someone, take me.
JARYN: My orders were specific.
EMH-SEVEN: Don't worry, Ensign. I can take care of myself. My compliments to the chef.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

LOKIRRIM: The prisoner, sir.
RANEK: Pulse-phased weapons, duranium-enforced hull. Much more sophisticated than the typical smuggler's vessel.
EMH-SEVEN: How many ways do you want me to say this? We are not smugglers, or terrorists. We are explorers. Let us contact our ship. Our captain will explain everything.
RANEK: If you are innocent, then you won't mind telling me more about this vessel. For instance, this device. What does it do?
EMH-SEVEN: That's a standard food replicator.
RANEK: Can it be used to create bioweapons?
EMH-SEVEN: Not unless you count Mister Neelix's Bolian soufflé. Let me show you. Computer, one slice of New York cheesecake. This is an old Earth delicacy.
RANEK: How do I know you're not trying to poison me?
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, please.
(S/he takes the fork and samples it. The cheesecake is even more tasty than expected.)
EMH-SEVEN: Mmm mmm! Oh, I never imagined. Mmm!
RANEK: Is this the first time you've tried that?
EMH-SEVEN: Of course not, but it's just that I usually avoid foods that are this rich. I do have a figure to maintain. Oh, I'd better get another for you. Computer, another slice of cheesecake. Here.
(S/he hands the half-eaten one to Ranek. He finds it pleasurable, too.)
RANEK: What other foods can that device create?
EMH-SEVEN: Hmm. (One banquet later, EMH-Seven is lying on the biobed. They are both drinking alcohol.)
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, during my time with the Collective we assimilated thousands of cultures from one end of the galaxy to the other. I'll say this for the Borg, we certainly do travel. Ah, of course, my life didn't truly begin until I came aboard Voyager, and met the person who changed my life The only one who truly believed in me, saw my true potential.
RANEK: Your Captain.
EMH-SEVEN: Our Doctor. That's right, the photonic. If only you could have known him. Ruggedly handsome. A sharp wit, a towering intellect. If he and I hadn't been colleagues. Well, now we'll never know what heights he could have reached.
RANEK: I hope you understand, I had no choice.
EMH-SEVEN: I was just following orders. I've heard that before.
RANEK: Maybe there's something I could do for you. I'll speak to my superiors, ask for leniency.
EMH-SEVEN: If I survive that long.
RANEK: What do you mean?
EMH-SEVEN: My cybernetic components are already depolarising. I need my regener regeneration device. As you can see, my motor functions are already impaired.
RANEK: All right. If I give this back to you, will you do something for me?

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]

EMH-SEVEN: It was so kind of you to escort me. Ah, nice to see you, Ensign.
KIM: Are you drunk?
EMH-SEVEN: It wasn't my fault. Seven's unique physiology is unique. It doesn't react well to synthehol.
KIM: What happened?
EMH-SEVEN: Captain Ranek and I shared a meal aboard the Flyer. He's really a gentleman, once you get to know him.
KIM: You had a dinner date in Seven's body?
EMH-SEVEN: It wasn't a date. It was a tactical manoeuvre designed to win the trust of our captors, and it worked.
(S/he holds up the mobile emitter.)
KIM: I won't ask what you had to do to get this.
EMH-SEVEN: Nothing unladylike, I assure you. They lost their medic to a recent skirmish, and I offered to take his place.
KIM: Let's download your programme before they change their mind. Hey, careful where you point those tubules.
EMH-SEVEN: Sorry.
(She injects the emitter, and the EMH appears.)
KIM: Easy. How do you feel?
SEVEN: Impaired.
(Seven is holding her upset stomach.)
EMH: You've had quite a shock to your system. Let me explain what's happened.
SEVEN: I know exactly what's happened. You've been abusing my body.
EMH: I'm a doctor.
KIM: Shush!
EMH: I would never abuse your body. I was trying to get information. Sometimes a glass of wine can loosen the tongue.
SEVEN: One glass. That doesn't excuse the other eight.
EMH: Was it that many? Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
KIM: Seven, you were aware of everything?
SEVEN: Painfully.
EMH: I'm afraid the role of spy wasn't written into my programme. I was forced to improvise.
SEVEN: You improvised your way through an entire cheesecake, as well as three servings of Ktarian chocolate puffs. Now I have to suffer the consequences.
EMH: I apologise if I overindulged. I'll be more careful next time.
SEVEN: There won't be a next time.
EMH: I'll be discovered. They'll decompile my programme.
KIM: Shush. I know this is difficult for you, but you're going to have put up with it until we can get out of here.
SEVEN: How do you propose we do that?
KIM: Maybe you can tap into their comm. system, get a message to Voyager.
EMH: Deciphering alien computers isn't exactly my forte.
SEVEN: But it is one of mine. If you can get close enough while they're accessing their systems, I'll be able to observe their command protocols.
LOKIRRIM [OC]: What's the situation?
JARYN: The Captain wants the female prisoner in the medical bay.
SEVEN: We should proceed.
EMH: You're saving my life. I want you to know how grateful I am.
SEVEN: Try to remember that the next time you're tempted to overindulge.
(She re-assimilates his programme.)

[Lokirrim ship - medical bay]

JARYN: The photonic's viral weapon attacks the cerebral cortex. Within days, the victim suffers complete synaptic failure.
EMH-SEVEN: Well, if we can't stop the virus, we may be able to slow its progress. We need to synthesise a neural inhibitor. Forgive me, but aren't you the ship's tactical officer?
JARYN: Tactical officer, medic, engineer. We've lost nearly a third of our crew to the photonics.
EMH-SEVEN: You certainly know your way around a medical bay. You may have missed your true calling.
JARYN: Actually, Emmik always thought I'd become a teacher. He used to call me the little professor.
EMH-SEVEN: Who's Emmik?
JARYN: The photonic who helped raise my brother and me. He knew more about treating scrapes and bruises than any organic Doctor I ever met.
EMH-SEVEN: Sounds like someone I'd enjoy meeting.
JARYN: Maybe. Before he joined the insurgency.
EMH-SEVEN: Why did he do that?
JARYN: I ask myself that question every day. We never treated him like a servant, but he turned against us anyway.
EMH-SEVEN: Is it possible he felt subjugated?
JARYN: I don't see how. He lived his own life, pursued his own interests. He was part of our family. At least I thought he was. We should get back to the patient.
EMH-SEVEN: It could take up to a day to determine if the inhibitor is working.
JARYN: Thank you.
EMH-SEVEN: Don't thank me, thank my ship's doctor. He taught me everything I know about medicine. And remember, he was a photonic. Actually, you have a lot in common with him. He was something of a Jack of all trades, too. I suspect you'd have gotten along famously. I'm certain he would've taken a liking to you.

[Tuvok's quarters]

PARIS: Your neurotransmitters aren't absorbing the medication.
TUVOK: Can you increase the dosage?
PARIS: Not without causing damage to your neocortex. The Doc might be able to synthesise a stronger medicine, but
TUVOK: I'll make the best of the situation until he returns.
PARIS: I do have one area of expertise that might help. The holodeck.
TUVOK: I am a married man.
PARIS: It's the holodeck, Tuvok. It doesn't count.
TUVOK: Is that what you tell your wife?
PARIS: No, of course not. My days of rescuing slave girls from Planet Ten are history. Look, you have photographs of your wife, right? The computer can use them to create a replica. You wouldn't be breaking your vows if it's a hologram of your wife.

[Holodeck]

(A cave lit with candles.)
T'PEL: As it was in the dawn of our days, as it will be for all tomorrows. To you, my husband, I consecrate all that I am.
TUVOK: T'Pel, my wife. From you I receive all that I am.
T'PEL: As it was in the beginning, so shall it be now.
TUVOK: Two bodies, one mind.
(They stroke fingers, then neck-nuzzle.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: I'm picking up a vessel closing at high impulse. They're firing.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We're on a peaceful mission.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: We've detected photonic activity aboard your vessel. Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
JANEWAY: Photonic activity?
PARIS: Tuvok. He's in holodeck two.
CHAKOTAY: They're firing again. It's some kind of photonic disrupter directed at holodeck two
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array and fire.
(They stop the disrupter.)
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Drop your shields and prepare to receive our inspection teams.
JANEWAY: You're not in a position to be making demands. Why did you fire on us?
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Your vessel is carrying photonics through Lokirrim space.
JANEWAY: We didn't realise that was forbidden. We'd be happy to shut down our holodecks.
(Janeway gestures to Chakotay, who obeys. T'Pel and the cave vanish.)
JANEWAY:N Your sensors should confirm they've been deactivated.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: You're still required to submit to inspection.
JANEWAY: Your sensors should also confirm that our weapons are ready to fire. We're both reasonable people. I suggest a compromise. Your vessel will escort us through Lokirrim territory. That way, you can keep an eye on us, make sure we don't reactivate our holodecks. The other alternative is, we destroy your ship.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Your proposal is acceptable.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Sometimes diplomacy requires a little sabre rattling. Begin long range scans.

[Lokirrim medical bay]

JARYN: I can picture them now. My father in his airponics bay, pruning his cona vines. My mother, reading in her favourite chair. Nothing in that home ever changes.
EMH-SEVEN: It must be comforting to have a place like that to go back to.
JARYN: I've never been away this long before. His progress is remarkable. I want you to know, I'm going to tell my superiors everything you've done for us.
EMH-SEVEN: First Ranek, and now you. I may become the first prisoner of war to be decorated by his captors.
JARYN: I know someone who'd really enjoy meeting you.
EMH-SEVEN: Who?
JARYN: My brother, Lohden. 
EMH-SEVEN: Your brother?
JARYN: You'd like him. He's ambitious, accomplished, and he'd love your sense of humour.
EMH-SEVEN: Apparently, it's my most attractive quality.
RANEK: Seven of Nine. Please report to the bridge.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]

(Ranek is alone, and the lights are lowered.)
EMH-SEVEN: Let me guess. Your crew decided to abandon ship.
RANEK: I wanted to thank you. I had a wonderful time the other night.
(The guard leaves them alone.)
EMH-SEVEN: It's not often that I indulge myself like that.
RANEK: It's been a long time for me, too. I remembered your interest in stellar phenomenon, so I requested a course change to show you something.
(S/he watches carefully as Ranek uses a console. A lovely nebula comes up on the viewscreen.)
EMH-SEVEN: What is it?
RANEK: To an astronomer, it's simply a pulsar cluster. But our poets call it the Window of Dreams. You can travel from one end of the Quadrant to the other and never see anything like it.
EMH-SEVEN: Lovely!
(There is a musical sound, too.)
RANEK: It's the pulsar's EM fields vibrating against our hull.
EMH-SEVEN: Oh!
RANEK: I once thought this was the most beautiful sight in the sector. I see now that I was wrong. Oh, I almost forgot.
(He offers a glass of alcohol.)
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, I promised a friend I'd go easy on the synthehol. Do you hear that? It's identical to the rhythm produced by the eight-chambered Ktarian heart.
RANEK: Is something wrong?
EMH-SEVEN: Rapid pulse, respiratory distress. You may be having a reaction to the pulsar's radiation. We should get you to the medical bay.
RANEK: No, I'm not going to the medical bay.
EMH-SEVEN: You starship captains are all alike. You can stare down the barrel of a phaser cannon but you can't stomach a simple medical exam.
RANEK: I don't need an exam to know what I'm suffering from.
(He kisses her. S/he pushes him away forcefully.)
RANEK: I'm sorry. I thought.
EMH-SEVEN: You were wrong.
RANEK: I didn't mean to offend you. It's just I've never met a woman like you before.
EMH-SEVEN: That's because there are no women like me.

[Lokirrim ship - medical bay]

JARYN: Is something wrong?
EMH-SEVEN: Ranek summoned me to the bridge under the pretext of a little stargazing. What he really wanted was to use my face as a tongue depressor.
JARYN: I'm surprised to hear that.
EMH-SEVEN: It was completely inappropriate. That kind of behaviour would get a Starfleet captain reassigned to a garbage scow.
JARYN: I'm not defending what he did, but you have to understand we've been out here for a long time. It's difficult to hide your feelings especially when you work closely with someone you're attracted to.
EMH-SEVEN: You have, have feelings for him? I've known lotharios like Ranek. Trust me, you don't want anything to do with him. You need someone who, who can appreciate your many talents. Someone overflowing with intelligence and compassion, someone capable. Ow!
(EMH-Seven pulls a neck muscle.)
JARYN: It looks like a spasm in the trapezius.
EMH-SEVEN: I had no idea it could be so excruciating.
JARYN: That's what happens when you work so long without rest. Our last medic showed me a technique that might help. I, I'll try it, if you like.
EMH-SEVEN: Please, anything.
(Jaryn massages her shoulders.)
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, that, that feels wonderful.
(S/he suddenly moves away.)
JARYN: Oh, did I hurt you?
EMH-SEVEN: No, no, no, no, no, no.
JARYN: Well then, what's wrong?
EMH-SEVEN: There's something you don't know about me. Something I have to tell you.
JARYN: It's all right. I know.
EMH-SEVEN: You do? How could you?
JARYN: Your cybernetic implants? Your portable regenerator?
EMH-SEVEN: You're not going to tell anyone, are you?
JARYN: I would never say anything to the crew. But Ranek knows.
EMH-SEVEN: He does?
JARYN: Of course. It was apparent the moment we scanned you.
EMH-SEVEN: I can't believe you didn't say anything.
JARYN: It wouldn't have been appropriate. You're part Borg. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
WOMAN [OC]: Security to Medical bay.
JARYN: This is Lieutenant Jaryn.
WOMAN [OC]: The prisoner is ill. He's requesting treatment by his crewmate.

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]

(Kim is on the floor, clutching his stomach.) 
KIM: Argh, Argh.
EMH-SEVEN: Ensign. 
KIM: Ow, argh, ow. Where the hell have you been? I had to fake a seizure before the guard would let me see you.
EMH-SEVEN: Calm down. Seven and I have been making progress.
(The EMH is downloaded into the mobile emitter.)
KIM: Did you get a look at their computer?
SEVEN: During the one brief moment when the Doctor wasn't indulging himself.
EMH: I think I've shown considerable restraint, under the circumstances.
SEVEN: Kissing Ranek on the bridge. Is that your idea of restraint?
KIM: Kissing?
EMH: Not that it's any of your business, but if you must know Ranek kissed me.
SEVEN: And the massage you got from Lieutenant Jaryn?
EMH: Entirely therapeutic.
SEVEN: You became sexually aroused in my body.
EMH: When did it become a crime to enjoy a sensation or two? Of course, you'd be the last person to understand that.
SEVEN: What do you mean?
EMH: The whole world is full of experiences and sensations, but you insist on denying yourself. Instead of replicating caviar, you choose nutritional supplement thirteen alpha.
SEVEN: Caviar is an indulgence.
EMH: Indulgences are what make life worth living.
KIM: Shush.
EMH: These last few days have been a revelation. Feeling your lungs fill with air, the surge of adrenaline through your veins. Until I spent a day in your skin, I never knew what I was missing.
SEVEN: You may have been better off not knowing.
EMH: We're quite a pair. Me trapped by the limitations of photons and forcefields, you by a drone's obsession with efficiency. You'd make an excellent hologram.
KIM: All right, listen. You can argue all you want when we get back to Voyager, but that's not going to happen unless we come up with a plan. Did you learn anything about their comm. system?
SEVEN: It can only be accessed from the bridge, but I saw Ranek enter his command codes.
KIM: If we can get those codes to Voyager, they may be able to disable the shields and beam us out.
EMH: How are we going to do that?
SEVEN: The subspace transceiver on the Flyer.
KIM: Can you get aboard?
SEVEN: It's heavily guarded.
EMH: I can get us aboard.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]

EMH-SEVEN: Captain, may I speak with you? Privately.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

EMH-SEVEN: I owe you an apology.
RANEK: I was the one who acted inappropriately.
EMH-SEVEN: A kiss is hardly a court martial offence. It's just that you caught me by surprise.
RANEK: I won't make that mistake again.
EMH-SEVEN: Perhaps we should start over.
RANEK: What did you have in mind?
EMH-SEVEN: We could start with a toast.
RANEK: I thought
SEVEN: Oh, I can make an exception for a special occasion. Computer, champagne, two glasses. To new beginnings.
RANEK: Maybe there's some hope for us yet.
EMH-SEVEN: As I've discovered recently, anything is possible. Computer, dim the lights. Play EMH music file gamma twelve.
(S/he lets her hair down and takes Ranek in a open dance hold, then pushes him into a Viennese waltz.)
RANEK: Oh, this is interesting.
EMH-SEVEN: It's called a waltz. Something else I learned from our doctor.
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain Ranek, please come to the bridge.
RANEK: What is it?
CREWMAN [OC]: We've received an encrypted transmission.
RANEK: I'll be right there.
EMH-SEVEN: You're not leaving?
RANEK: I'll be back as soon as I can.
EMH-SEVEN: I really think you should stay.
(S/he sends him into a twirl, then jabs a sedative into his neck.) Never play hard to get with an hologram.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Still no sign of the Flyer's warp signature.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your sense of duty, Tuvok, but we can handle the situation without you.
TUVOK: Under the circumstances, abandoning my post would be a dereliction of duty. My illness is still in the early stages. I can control it.
JANEWAY: If I remember correctly, the last time you came down with the Tarkalean Flu was seven years ago. As soon as this is over, the holodeck is at your disposal.
NEELIX: There you are, Commander. Now, a person in your condition really ought to be in bed. This is my grandmother's recipe, guaranteed to cure even the most stubborn flu. Now, Smell that?
TUVOK: I don't smell anything.
NEELIX: Exactly. I prepared it just the way you like it. No herbs or spices of any kind. It's practically tasteless.
TUVOK: We're receiving a hail. It's the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: On screen. Seven, it's good to see you.
EMH-SEVEN [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid there's no time for pleasantries, Captain. We're being held prisoner on a Lokirrim patrol ship. I'm sending you our precise location and the command codes to disable their shields.
JANEWAY: Are the Doctor and Harry all right?
EMH-SEVEN [on viewscreen]: Ensign Kim is his usual chipper self. As for me, I'm looking forward to a long, uneventful shift in Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH-SEVEN [on viewscreen]: It's a long story, Captain. Delta Flyer out.
CHAKOTAY: They may be in more trouble than we thought.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
PARIS: Our escort isn't going to take kindly to a detour.
JANEWAY: What's the status of their weapons?
TUVOK: They've repaired their forward phasers.
JANEWAY: Target their power matrix. We may only get one shot, so make it count.
TUVOK: Ready.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Direct hit.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum warp.

[Lokirrim ship - Medical bay]

(Ranek is on a biobed.)
JARYN: What's wrong with him?
EMH-SEVEN: Apparently, Captain Ranek has an even lower tolerance for synthehol than I do.
JARYN: That doesn't sound like Ranek.
EMH-SEVEN: It's probably not something he'd admit to his crew. We should keep this between us. What are you doing?
JARYN: Reviving him.
EMH-SEVEN: I wouldn't recommend that.
(Ranek wakes.)
RANEK: Take her to detention. And separate her from the other prisoner.
JARYN: There are traces of sedative in your bloodstream.
RANEK: What was your plan? To aid the insurgents?
EMH-SEVEN: There was no plan.
JARYN: We trusted you.
EMH-SEVEN: I'm still a prisoner on your ship. And despite our friendship, my first obligation is to escape.
RANEK: We were going to recommend leniency.
EMH-SEVEN: If you knew who I really was, I doubt you'd be trying to help me.
LOKIRRIM [OC]: Alien vessel approaching.
RANEK: I want her where I can see her.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: They're raising shields.
JANEWAY: Stand by with those command codes. Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. We don't want a fight. Return my people and we'll be on our way.
RANEK [on viewscreen]: Your people were caught transporting a photonic insurgent and biogenic material.
JANEWAY: We don't want to disable your ship, but we will if we have to.
(Chakotay enters the command codes.)

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]

JARYN: We're losing our ventral shield grid.
RANEK: Compensate.
JARYN: I'm trying. They've tapped into the shield matrix. They're using your command authorisation.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They're rerouting power. He's tying their shields directly into the warp matrix.
RANEK [on viewscreen]: If you fire on us, you'll trigger a core breach. You'll be killing the people you're here to rescue.
JANEWAY: End transmission. Tractor beam.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]

RANEK: Full reverse. Target their emitters.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: They've broken free.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, can you send a comm. signal directly to Seven's cortical node?

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Doctor, if you can hear me, we need your help. Try to disable their shields.
(Seven downloads the EMH into the mobile emitter then knocks out her guard.)
JARYN: It's a photonic.
SEVEN: Cover me.
(She hands the EMH the guard's gun.)
EMH: Stay back! I'm not afraid to use this.
(Seven uses a control panel. The guard distracts the EMH and Ranek gets the gun from him. He fires it at the control panel where Seven is working.)
RANEK: Step away.
JARYN: She destabilised the shield grid. It's failing.
RANEK: Watch them.
SEVEN: If you try to re-initialise the grid it'll overload. We could all die.
EMH: Ranek, don't.
(The panel explodes, injuring him.)
JARYN: Stay back.
EMH: I'm a doctor. Let me help.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Their shields are down. I have a lock.
JANEWAY: Away team, stand by for transport.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]

EMH: I have injured here, Captain. I can't leave yet. He'll die without immediate surgery. I know this is difficult to grasp, but I'm the person you've been getting to know the last few days. My programme was in control of Seven's body.
JARYN: You're lying.
EMH: I know you have feelings for Ranek. If he dies, you're never going to forgive yourself.

[Lokirrim ship - Medical bay]

(Ranek gets off the biobed.)
EMH: Your vital signs are stable.
RANEK: I suppose I should be grateful.
EMH: A thank you is customary after someone saves your life.
RANEK: What happened was between me and Seven of Nine, not you.
EMH: I'm sorry you feel that way. The truth is, aside from a few awkward moments, I enjoyed our time together.
(He looks towards Jaryn and back again.)
EMH: There are many women who'd appreciate an attractive man like you. I'm just not one of them.
JARYN: More of our vessels are on the way. You should leave while you can.
RANEK: Thank you.
(Ranek leaves.)
EMH: I guess you won't be introducing me to your brother.
JARYN: I'm not sure you're the kind of person he's interested in.
EMH: You mean because I'm a hologram. I don't imagine this experience is going to change your feelings about photonics, but I wanted you to know I'm grateful for the time we've spent together.
JARYN: You're a talented doctor. We're the ones who should be grateful.
EMH: I'm glad I could help. Doctor to Voyager. One to beam out.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Commander, it's good to see you're over the flu.
TUVOK: I have fully recovered. Thank you for your assistance.
PARIS: Ah, don't mention it. I just hope everything was okay.
TUVOK: Not exactly. My wife's ears are four millimetres shorter than your facsimile's.
PARIS: So I took a little artistic license. Aside from that, was everything all right?
TUVOK: The hologram was adequate, but no substitute for my wife.
PARIS: Of course not.

[Doctor's office]

(Seven brings in a tray of food and drink.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: There isn't one, yet.
EMH: The mess hall is three decks up. In case you've forgotten, I've lost my appetite. Permanently.
SEVEN: That doesn't mean you're incapable of enjoying a meal. Foie gras with truffles. An ancient Earth delicacy. Chateau d'Yquem. According to the culinary database, the ideal accompaniment.
EMH: Not your usual fare.
SEVEN: It's come to my attention that nutritional supplements don't fully meet my needs.
EMH: I see.
SEVEN: I thought we could share this experience. I'll describe the meal to you. The tastes, the sensations. Perhaps you can enjoy it vicariously.
EMH: What about the wine? It doesn't exactly agree with you.
SEVEN: If I become sick, I won't have far to go. To shared experiences.
EMH: Hear, hear.


S7 E8
Nightingale
Stardate: 54274.7
Original Airdate: 22 November 2000

Captain's log, stardate 54274.7. Lieutenant Torres has finally convinced me that I can't put off a major maintenance overhaul any longer. We've set down on an uninhabited planet, and I've sent shuttles to search for supplies.
[Engineering]

JANEWAY: What about the impulse upgrades?
TORRES: The day after tomorrow. Put a new phase compensator on that relay.
JANEWAY: Environmental control?
TORRES: The thermal regulators are still running a little hot.
JANEWAY: Too bad we can't just keep the windows open. How long until the warp drive is back online?
TORRES: Six days.
JANEWAY: You're sure you can't get it done any faster?
TORRES: Captain, I don't like sitting still any more than you do, but repairs this extensive take time.
(The lights go out.)
TORRES: Mendez, track down that power drain.
MENDEZ: Right away.
JANEWAY: I know this ship has been through a lot, but you told me this would only take a few days.
TORRES: That was before I discovered the microfractures in the starboard nacelle and the fused relays in the main computer.
(The lights come back on.)
TORRES: Who did that?
ICHEB: I noticed a charge imbalance in the EPS feed. I'm sorry if I
TORRES: It could have taken us hours to find that.
ICHEB: I have a tactical systems report for you. It's from Commander Tuvok.
TORRES: I'd say you're capable of a lot more than delivering PADDs, Icheb.
JANEWAY: I agree. Until we get underway again, he's assigned to you. With him on your team, maybe you'll get this job done a little faster.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

(Neelix has his feet up, and is snoring.)
KIM: Neelix?
(Kim sounds an alarm to wake him.)
KIM: Rise and shine. It's oh five hundred.
NEELIX: Already? Oh. I was dreaming we found the dilithium and were back aboard Voyager.
SEVEN: Dreaming is an accurate description.
NEELIX: Didn't we already scan this nebula?
SEVEN: Four times.
KIM: I thought the Borg were known for being thorough.
SEVEN: The Borg value efficiency, not redundancy.
KIM: I've got a hunch about this nebula. There's dilithium in there somewhere.
NEELIX: I'm getting some fluctuating energy readings.
KIM: From the nebula?
NEELIX: No, it's weapons fire.
(A vessel is coming in fast, firing past them. The impacts light up another vessel directly ahead.)
KIM: Let's get out of here.
NEELIX: We're receiving a distress call.
TEREK [on monitor]: have casualties. Please help us. We're on a humanitarian mission delivering medical supplies.
(The ship decloaks.)
KIM: Reverse course.
NEELIX: We can't just leave them.
KIM: Starfleet policy. Interference in alien conflicts is strictly prohibited.
NEELIX: You heard their captain. It's a medical ship.
SEVEN: Their shields are down. Life support is failing on at least three decks.
KIM: Open a channel to the other ship.
KIM: This is Ensign Kim of the Delta Flyer. I don't know what you're fighting about, but it looks like you've won. The people on the other ship have casualties. We'd like to
ANNARI COMMANDER [on monitor]: This isn't your concern.
KIM: I'm not taking sides. I only want to help the wounded.
ANNARI COMMANDER [on monitor]: Withdraw immediately.
SEVEN: They're charging weapons.
KIM: Neelix, set our deflector beam for a narrow pulse. Seven, let me know the second their weapons array is fully charged. I might be able to trigger an overload.
NEELIX: The deflector bandwidth is at point four microns.
SEVEN: Now.
(Kim fies the pulse at the Annari ship and then veers off.)
SEVEN: Their weapons are offline. Shields are down. They're retreating.
KIM: Take the helm. Neelix, you're with me.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

(The place is wrecked.)
KIM: Who's in charge here?
TEREK: He is.
(He indicates a corpse)
TEREK: What are we going to do?
KIM: It's okay, we're here to help. The ship that attacked you is gone.
LOKEN: Who are you?
KIM: Harry Kim from the Starship Voyager. We're responding to your distress call. We can treat your wounded.
LOKEN: The captain?
TEREK: Dead, sir. So are the rest of the officers.
NEELIX: I'm reading a total of twenty seven lifeforms aboard the ship.
DAYLA: There were fifty six of us.
LOKEN: How are we going to get home without the officers?
KIM: We need to restore main power. Where's the warp interface?
LOKEN: We're passengers, not crewmen.
TEREK: You can access engineering systems from here.
KIM: Your warp core is intact. I think I can bring it back online. Can you monitor antimatter flow?
TEREK: I'm not sure.
KIM: Just watch this readout and tell me if it starts to fluctuate. I'm routing emergency power to structural integrity. Atmospheric pressure is returning to normal. Neelix, we'll go through the ship deck by deck, find the survivors.
LOKEN: We need to get our cloak back online.
KIM: I'll take a look at it as soon as I've repaired the engines.
LOKEN: No, the cloak is more important.
DAYLA: The Annari have far more powerful weapons than we do. If they come back, the cloak is our best defence.
KIM: We'll try to get it back online. Kim to Delta Flyer.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead.
KIM: I need your help, Seven. It looks like we're going to be here for a while.
(Later, Kim is repairing bridge consoles.)
TEREK: How did you do it?
KIM: Do what?
TEREK: Disable the Annari warship so quickly?
KIM: Basically, we used their own weapons against them.
TEREK: How?
KIM: We used a deflector pulse to overload their phaser banks.
TEREK: You know a lot about engineering.
KIM: It's all part of my Starfleet training.
TEREK: Starfleet?
KIM: Yeah, the organisation I work for.
TEREK: And they teach you all these things?
KIM: We train at an Academy ,and I guess I picked up a few new tricks during my time on Voyager.
TEREK: How long have you been captain?
KIM: I'm just an Ensign.
TEREK: Ensign? What's that?
KIM: A junior officer. The lowest ranked officer, actually.
TEREK: This is my first deep space assignment. It hasn't gone very well.
KIM: Could you hand me that? My first week on the job didn't go very well, either. We ended up seventy thousand light years from home, lost over a dozen crew members, but I got through it. So will you.
TEREK: I hope so.
KIM: If you're going to be a starship officer, you've got to accept that adversity comes with the job.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Icheb has a plate of food on his console.)
TORRES: What's that?
ICHEB: It's a diagnostic of the antimatter injectors.
TORRES: No, I meant that stuff you're eating.
ICHEB: Nutritional supplements replicated to meet my metabolic requirements.
TORRES: Sounds delicious. You know, in the mess hall they actually have tables and chairs for that.
ICHEB: I prefer to work while I eat. It's a more efficient use of my time.
TORRES: You did a great job today. We're ahead of schedule, thanks to you. Here's what we're going to work on tomorrow. I'll see you at oh six hundred. Icheb?
ICHEB: Yes?
TORRES: What do you do for fun?
ICHEB: Fun?
TORRES: Recreation. How do you spend your time when you're off duty?
ICHEB: Between my work and my studies I don't have much time for recreation.
TORRES: I've learned that you've got to take a break once in awhile. I've been doing a lot of rock climbing on the holodeck. Maybe when we're finished tightening all the nuts and bolts, you'd like to join me.
ICHEB: I do have an interest in geology.
TORRES: It's not about the rocks, Icheb. It's about the climbing.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

SEVEN: Main power has been restored. All stations responding.
KIM: The cloak's back online. Impulse and warp drives are standing by. Shields are at ninety six percent. I'd say you're ready to get back on course.
LOKEN: We appreciate your help.
KIM: I hope you have a safe journey.
LOKEN: Mister Kim, I feel guilty asking even more of you, but no one on this ship knows how to fly it.
KIM: None of you has ever piloted a starship?
TEREK: I've trained in shuttles, but nothing like this.
KIM: I'll enter a flight plan in the auto-navigation system and give you a quick course in helm operations. You shouldn't have any trouble.
LOKEN: Couldn't you take us? This ship needs an experienced commanding officer.
KIM: I'm sorry, but we've already gotten more involved than we should have. And they need us back on Voyager.
LOKEN: It's not just my ship that concerns me. You've made an enemy of the Annari now. But if you dock your ship in our shuttlebay, our cloak will protect you.
KIM: That's a generous offer, but we'll be fine.
LOKEN: Please, Mister Kim, we can't afford to fail. This ship,
DAYLA: Loken, don't.
LOKEN: We can trust these people. I'm a doctor. These people are my research team. We're carrying new vaccines to our homeland. They'll save thousands of lives.
NEELIX: Sir, I looked at their flight plan. It takes them pretty close to Voyager.
KIM: I'll bring you as far as our ship. When we get there, you can discuss your situation with my captain.
LOKEN: Thank you.
SEVEN: What about Starfleet policy?
KIM: This is a humanitarian mission. Dock the Flyer in their shuttlebay.
(The ship cloaks and goes to warp. Later -)
NEELIX: We're approaching the planet.
KIM: Take us out of warp. Disengage the cloak.
SEVEN: Wait. I'm detecting three alien vessels in orbit.
KIM: On screen.
TEREK: Those are Annari warships. Your people are in danger.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I apologise for the state of my ship. We weren't expecting company.
GERAL: I hope we're not imposing.
CHAKOTAY: Not at all. Making contact with new cultures is a priority for us.
GERAL: For us, too. This is a fine ship, Captain.
JANEWAY: One of the best in the fleet, but it could use a new set of deuterium injectors.
CHAKOTAY: Any chance you could provide them?
GERAL: I think we can arrange something. What are you offering in exchange?
JANEWAY: Zeolitic ore. We mined several tons of it from an asteroid field. It's high-grade, easy to refine.
GERAL: I'll speak to my supply officer.
TUVOK: We're being hailed by Ensign Kim. Audio only.
JANEWAY: Hello, Harry.
KIM [OC]: Is everything all right?
JANEWAY: Of course. Why wouldn't it be?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Our long range scans detected several alien ships orbiting the planet.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern, but there's nothing to worry about. We've made some new friends, that's all. When can we expect you back?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: We've run into a slight delay.
JANEWAY [OC]: Nothing serious, I hope.
KIM: No. Everything's under control.
JANEWAY [OC]: Good.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Any luck finding dilithium?
KIM [OC]: I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: I'll tell the other teams to keep looking. See you soon, Ensign.
KIM [OC]: Yes, ma'am. Kim out.
GERAL: Dilithium? We can get that for you, too.
JANEWAY: Really?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

LOKEN: She's formed an alliance with our enemy.
KIM: Just because they're talking doesn't mean they formed an alliance. It's probably just a friendly meeting.
LOKEN: That's how the Annari operate. They come to you as friends and when they've won your trust, they declare you subjects of the Annari Empire.

[Bridge]

KIM [OC]: Kim to Voyager.
JANEWAY: We didn't expect you so soon.
KIM [OC]: Actually, Captain, I'm closer than I let on. And I've brought some new friends of my own.

[Briefing room]

LOKEN: Our chances of getting home without your help aren't very good. We'd appreciate any assistance you could offer. 
JANEWAY: I hope you understand, I need to give this some thought.
(Loken leaves.)
JANEWAY: You've put me in a difficult position, Ensign. We could use the help the Annari are offering, but if they find out we're aiding their enemy
KIM: I couldn't just stand by and do nothing.
JANEWAY: That doesn't justify getting involved in somebody else's fight.
KIM: What would you have done?
JANEWAY: Probably exactly what you did.
KIM: I guess I learned from the best.
JANEWAY: If this were simply an errand of mercy I wouldn't hesitate, but the fact is, these people are involved in an interplanetary war.
KIM: Captain, I've gotten to know them over the last couple of days. You met Loken. They're scientists, not soldiers.
JANEWAY: You've only heard one side of the story.
KIM: You've taken sides before. The Borg resistance. The Vaadwaur.
JANEWAY: Those were different circumstances.
KIM: You were trying to help people in need. How is this any different?
JANEWAY: Have you thought about applying to the Advocate General's office? You'd make a good lawyer. I suppose I could spare Chakotay or Tuvok for a few days.
KIM: That won't be necessary. The Kraylor know me. They trust me.
JANEWAY: I'm sure they'd find Tuvok or Chakotay just as trustworthy.
KIM: But they outrank me. If you send one of them, it won't be my mission anymore.
JANEWAY: Your mission?
KIM: My first real command.
JANEWAY: You've been in command on Voyager before.
KIM: On the night shift, for a few hours. It's not the same thing. You and Chakotay are always a couple of decks away, ready to take over if anything goes wrong. I've been on Voyager for almost seven years and I'm still an Ensign.
JANEWAY: If this is your way of bucking for a promotion
KIM: No, no, I understand there's a command structure and that our circumstances are unique. But the fact is, if we were back home, I'd be a Lieutenant by now. Maybe even a Lieutenant Commander.
JANEWAY: You're pretty sure of yourself, aren't you?
KIM: I know I can do this, and the Kraylor are giving me a chance to prove it.
JANEWAY: I expect you back before we complete our repairs.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And I'm not sending you alone.
KIM: Captain
JANEWAY: I want you to take Seven. Since she has no rank, you clearly outrank her.

[Doctor's office]

ICHEB: Lieutenant Torres asked me to repair a malfunctioning holo-emitter.
EMH: It's about time. Whenever I move to the far corner of the surgical bay

[Sickbay]

EMH: My legs disappear.
ICHEB: Seven of Nine told me you gave her social lessons.
EMH: She wanted to get along better with the crew. Social skills are one thing the Borg never assimilated.
ICHEB: I was hoping you could instruct me as well.
EMH: I'd be delighted. Lesson One, Making a First Impression.
ICHEB: Actually, I wanted to ask you about something specific.
EMH: Fire away.
ICHEB: How can you tell when someone has romantic feelings for you?
EMH: Icheb, this is a surprise. Have you caught someone's eye?
ICHEB: I'm speaking hypothetically.
EMH: Ah. Hypothetically, there are various indications of romantic attraction. Compliments, for example. Invitations to social activities. Finding excuses to be in close proximity with someone.
ICHEB: Yes, but couldn't those things happen in a relationship that wasn't romantic?
EMH: I suppose.
ICHEB: Is there a way to be absolutely certain?
EMH: Well, short of an open declaration of affection, there are some fairly reliable physiological responses. Elevated blood pressure, increased beta endorphin production.
ICHEB: Thank you, Doctor. You've been very helpful.
(Icheb leaves.)
EMH: With my guidance, you'll master the nuances of social interaction in no time.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Harry. Take me with you, buddy.
KIM: Sorry, Tom. This is my mission.
PARIS: Oh, come on. I've been itching to get back into space ever since we set down on this dust bowl. I'm tired of cleaning conduits and replacing relays.
KIM: You're a married man now. You've got family responsibilities. Just leave the away missions to the young, unattached guys.
PARIS: That ship is in pretty bad shape. You're going to need a good pilot.
KIM: No, thanks.
PARIS: Wait a minute. I know what this is about.
KIM: You do?
PARIS: Sure. You've got a girl on that ship you don't want me to know about.
KIM: There's no girl. Not this time.
PARIS: Then what is it?
KIM: I don't know how else to this say this, so I'll just say it. You've always been Captain Proton, I have always been Buster Kincaid. It's my turn this time.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: I'm glad you're not planning to leave on an empty stomach, Captain. I have plomeek soup and eggplant parmesan.
KIM: Either's fine.
NEELIX: Wrong answer.
KIM: Excuse me?
NEELIX: If you're going to be a captain you have to act like a captain. Never admit you're uncertain about anything. You can't be indecisive in front of your crew.
KIM: It's just a snack, Neelix.
NEELIX: When Captain Janeway comes in here, she knows exactly what she wants.
KIM: Maybe I'm just not as picky about my food.
NEELIX: Whatever you say, Ensign.
KIM: Neelix! Plomeek soup, and make sure it's hot.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

(Kim and Seven enter.)
TEREK: Captain on the bridge.
KIM: Where did you learn that?
TEREK: I've been studying that Starfleet manual you loaned me.
KIM: Take your station, Mister Terek.
TEREK: Aye, sir. Course?
KIM: I'll do it. Laying in a course, heading one one five, mark thirty seven. Does this ship have a name?
TEREK: Medical transport one three six.
KIM: I think we can do better than that. Nightingale. The name of someone from my homeworld. She was famous for treating wounded soldiers on the battlefield.
LOKEN: It's perfect.
KIM: Hail Voyager.
(Seven complies.)
KIM: Kim to Voyager. We're ready to get underway.
JANEWAY [OC]: Acknowledged. Good luck.
KIM: See you in a few days. Kim out. Main power.
SEVEN: Online.
KIM: Tactical.
DAYLA: Shields and weapons standing by.
KIM: Bring the cloak online. Warp six. Engage.

KIM [OC]: Acting Captain's personal log, stardate 54277.3. My first day in command has been challenging, but I've loved every minute of it. I can't help feeling that this was something I was born to do.

[Kraylor ship - Ready room]

(Kim tidies his desk and strokes his saxaphone, before sitting and putting his feet up.)
SEVEN: The hourly status report you requested.
KIM: Thanks.
SEVEN: Why have you brought these items aboard?
KIM: They make me feel more at home.
SEVEN: We'll only be on this vessel for a few days. Decorating is an inefficient use of your time.
KIM: It's important to forge a personal connection with your vessel, make the ship your own. Ask Captain Janeway.
SEVEN: I'll discuss it with her the moment we return.
KIM: Is there anything else?
SEVEN: I asked Terek to make a course correction.
KIM: He's never done that before. I'd better check on him.
SEVEN: I believe he's capable of doing it himself.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Status?
TEREK: I've entered the new heading.
KIM: Looks like the guidance vector is off by a couple of microns.
TEREK: I was about to correct that.
KIM: You need to realign the primary navigational sensor first.
TEREK: Yes, sir.
KIM: And make sure it stays locked on your guide star. Here, let me show you.
(Terek gives up his seat.)

[Jefferies tube]

ICHEB: I'm, I'm sorry, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Don't worry about it. Bumping elbows comes with the job. And you can call me B'Elanna. Put this with the others. These relays should have been replaced a while ago. It's amazing they've held up this long. I'm really looking forward to our climb.
ICHEB: Wouldn't you prefer to spend your free time with your husband?
TORRES: If it doesn't involve a race car, a shuttle, or something else he can drive, Tom's not interested. Besides, since we got married I see more than enough of him. Hold still.
(Torres opens a ceiling hatch and stands up. Icheb scans her.)

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: What's that?
DAYLA: I'm reading a power fluctuation somewhere in the propulsion system.
SEVEN: It's destabilising the cloak.
KIM: All stop.
(The ship decloaks.)

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]

KIM: The core is stable. That should take care of it.
LOKEN: Are you absolutely certain?
KIM: As a scientist, you should know there's no such thing as absolute certainty.
SEVEN: Perhaps we could run a diagnostic before we
KIM: That would take hours. Captain Janeway wants us back before Voyager finishes its overhaul.
LOKEN: The cloaking system is delicate. It requires constant attention.
KIM: Correct me if I'm wrong, you're a physician. You have to trust me on this. We'll monitor it closely, don't worry.
LOKEN: I simply want to ensure that our mission is a success.
KIM: You asked me to take command of this ship, and that's what I'm doing.
(Loken leaves. Kim speaks to Dayla.)
KIM: Tell Terek to resume course.
(Dayla leaves.)
SEVEN: I've discovered a serious flaw in one of the ship's systems.
KIM: Which one?
SEVEN: The captain. The captain's main function is to issue orders, correct?
KIM: Right.
SEVEN: And the crew's function is to support the captain and carry out those orders.
KIM: What's your point?
SEVEN: Every time you give an order, you carry it out yourself. And when someone else makes a suggestion, you dismiss it.
KIM: These people are inexperienced. They need my help.
SEVEN: When you first came aboard Voyager, did Captain Janeway help you?
KIM: Sure, she looked after all the junior officers.
SEVEN: By doing your work for you?
KIM: No. She gave me a lot to do, actually.
SEVEN: Because she felt you were more capable than she was?
KIM: Of course not. She wanted me to learn. To gain confidence.
SEVEN: Interesting.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

(Back in flight, the cloak stutters again.)
KIM: Emergency power. Repolarise the containment field.
DAYLA: I can't.
LOKEN: The cloak is going to fail again.
KIM: Don't panic. This is a minor malfunction.
LOKEN: Minor? We're losing our main defence system.
TEREK: We've been detected. Two Annari vessels are closing on our position. Correction, six Annari vessels.
(The Annari shoot at them.)
KIM: Evasive manoeuvres. Kim to Engineering.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]

SEVEN: Go ahead.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: We need that cloak back online.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]

SEVEN: The primary generator has failed. I'm trying to
(An explosion knocks her out.)
KIM [OC]: Seven?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Seven, come in. (to Terek) You have the bridge.
TEREK: We need you here.
DAYLA: I'll go, sir.
KIM: All right. I'll give you instructions over the comm. Charge phaser banks. Target their weapons array.
TEREK: Which ship?
KIM: The closest one, off our port bow.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]

DAYLA: Dayla to the Bridge. Life support failing down here. I've gotten everyone out.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Good work. Now go to the cloaking generator.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]

KIM [OC]: What's the field polarity?
DAYLA: Two hundred six point four.
KIM [OC]: That's too low. We're going to have to raise it.
DAYLA: I'm bypassing the phase converter.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: No, wait, I didn't tell you to do that.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]

DAYLA: Won't that increase the field polarity?
KIM [OC]: Yes, but.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Listen to me carefully. I want you to try
LOKEN: Dayla, it's Loken. Take the warp core offline.
KIM: What are you talking about?
LOKEN: Bypass the driver coil and shunt power directly to the polaron matrix.
(The ship vanishes.)
TEREK: The cloak is back online.
KIM: Get us out of here, full impulse. Dayla, secure the Engineering section and get back to the bridge. Dayla?
LOKEN: I'm not reading any life signs in Engineering.

[Kraylor ship - crew quarters]

(Kim scans an unconsious Seven while Loken enters.)
KIM: Dayla?
LOKEN: She's dead. How's Seven?
KIM: She may be in shock. I'm not sure. Have a look.
(Loken scans Seven.)
KIM: Your opinion, Doctor?
LOKEN: I believe she may be in shock.
KIM: Do you think we should give her a cortical stimulant?
LOKEN: That might be indicated.
KIM: You're no doctor, are you? You and I need to talk. Alone.

[Kraylor ship - Ready room]

KIM: What the hell is going on?
LOKEN: I don't know what you mean.
KIM: Nothing about this mission is adding up. It's obvious you know a lot more about cloaking systems than biology. So did Dayla. And the second our cloak failed, half a dozen Annari warships came after us, one little medical transport. The truth!
LOKEN: My colleagues and I have been working at a secret base, but not to create vaccines. We've been developing cloaking devices for our fleet.
KIM: This ship is a prototype.
LOKEN: The Annari know we have it, and they don't want us to get it home.
KIM: I never would have agreed to this if I had known you had a military objective.
LOKEN: Our world has been under an Annari blockade for three years. The planet is protected by a shield grid, but it's almost impossible to get our ships in or out.
KIM: I convinced Captain Janeway this was a humanitarian mission.
LOKEN: It is. The Annari are choking us to death, slowly. If we can't get supply ships through the blockade, we can't get food to our people. Or medicine.
KIM: For all I know, that's another lie.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Reverse course.
TEREK: Sir?
KIM: We're heading back to Voyager.
TEREK: I don't understand.
LOKEN: He knows about the cloak.
TEREK: I would've told you, but
KIM: I gave you an order.
TEREK: What about the mission?
KIM: That's not your concern. You want to be a Starship officer? Your job is to follow orders.
TEREK: Sir, I don't think you
KIM: This is not a debate. You're under my command.
TEREK: No, sir. Not any more.
KIM: You're relieved. You, take the helm.
LOKEN: I believe you're the one who's been relieved.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Where are you going in such a hurry?
ICHEB: Engineering, to assist B'Elanna.
PARIS: Ah.
ICHEB: Lieutenant Torres.
PARIS: You've been seeing a lot of my wife lately. Should I be worried?
ICHEB: The repairs are extensive. It's a lot of work.
PARIS: You can't fool me. I heard you two were planning on scaling some cliffs together.
ICHEB: It was her idea.
PARIS: Hey, relax. Spending time on the holodeck is good for you. But if you really want to have fun, forget climbing. Try my race car programme.
ICHEB: Race car?
PARIS: You get to chase me around the track in an old Earth ground vehicle. Three hundred kph. It'll really get your blood pumping.
ICHEB: Are you challenging me to a competition?
PARIS: Do you think you can take me? Tomorrow, holodeck two, nineteen hundred hours.

[Engineering]

ICHEB: There is something we need to discuss.
TORRES: Sure, as soon as you help me finish this diagnostic.
ICHEB: I can't do this.
TORRES: Of course you can. You've done dozens of them.
ICHEB: I'm not talking about the diagnostic. I'm talking about us.
TORRES: Us?
ICHEB: Your interest in me. It's inappropriate.
TORRES: I don't think I understand.
ICHEB: It's obvious you desire a romantic involvement.
TORRES: Excuse me?
ICHEB: You've made all the customary overtures, Finding reasons to spend time with me, complimenting me, inviting me to engage in recreational activities. Your husband even challenged me to a ritual contest.
TORRES: What are you talking about?
ICHEB: According to my research, it's a traditional Klingon practice.
TORRES: Look, I'm sorry, but you've got the wrong idea. You seemed a little lonely. I was just trying to be friendly.
ICHEB: I scanned you.
TORRES: You scanned me?
ICHEB: In the Jefferies tube. Your blood pressure and neurotransmitter readings indicated a state of arousal.
TORRES: It was hot, and I've been under a lot of pressure, but I certainly wasn't aroused. Look, Icheb, I like you. But aside from the fact that I am a much older woman, I'm married.
ICHEB: That's why we have to do the honourable thing. We should stop seeing each other.
TORRES: You're right. As much as it hurts, I'll just have to face the truth.
ICHEB: It's for the best.

[Kraylor ship - crew quarters]

KIM: Seven. Feeling better?
SEVEN: Well enough to return to duty.
KIM: You won't be returning to duty. Not on this ship anyway. Loken lied to us. There's no vaccine. The cloak is the real cargo. I ordered the crew to take us back to Voyager, but they refused.
SEVEN: They mutinied.
KIM: I guess that's what you'd call it. I've packed some supplies. We'll take an escape pod. I'm hoping the Annari will leave us alone, treat us as neutral parties.
SEVEN: We're not neutral parties.
KIM: This is a military mission. We can't get involved.
SEVEN: We've been involved since you first fired on that Annari ship.
KIM: I thought I was helping people in distress.
SEVEN: Don't they still need your help? Are you abandoning this ship because the mission wasn't what you expected, or because being a captain wasn't what you expected?
KIM: I am perfectly capable of commanding a starship.
SEVEN: Are you? Clearly, you're uncomfortable with the role, delegating tasks, giving orders.
KIM: Someone died following my orders.
SEVEN: You can't blame yourself for that.
KIM: A captain's responsible for the lives of his crew.
SEVEN: People sometimes die on missions, despite the captain's best efforts.
KIM: I should have stuck to playing Buster Kincaid.
SEVEN: A holodeck programme can be turned off when it no longer suits you. Reality can't. If you really feel responsible for this crew, you'll help them get home, because they won't survive without you.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

(Circular explosions light up parts of the planet's forcefield.)
TEREK: Is that some new kind of weapon?
LOKEN: They're scanning pulses designed to illuminate cloaked ships. If we hit one, we'll be exposed.
TEREK: How are we going to get through?
KIM: We'll find a way.
LOKEN: I thought you were leaving.
KIM: I get claustrophobic in escape pods. Switch to manual helm control. Full power to shields.
(Loken nods.)
TEREK: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Two Annari ships have entered orbit. They are hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen. Captain Geral, we have twelve isotons of ore for you.
GERAL [on viewscreen]: I'm under orders to escort you out of Annari space immediately. You've been supporting our enemy.
JANEWAY: You must be mistaken.
GERAL [on viewscreen]: A shuttlecraft matching your hull composition fired on one of our ships several days ago, and we recently detected two human bio-signatures on a Kraylor warship.
JANEWAY: I can explain that.
GERAL [on viewscreen]: If you don't leave immediately, we'll be forced to fire on you.
JANEWAY: Our warp drive is still being repaired.
GERAL [on viewscreen]: Then we'll escort you at impulse. You have five minutes to lift off.
CHAKOTAY: So much for our new deuterium injectors.
PARIS: What about Harry and Seven?
JANEWAY: We'll go looking for them, as soon as we get rid of our escort.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]

KIM: Evasive manoeuvres.
TEREK: There are too many of them.
KIM: You're doing fine. Just try to stay at least one hundred metres ahead of the closest pulse.
TEREK: Yes, sir.
LOKEN: We should return fire.
KIM: No. That would only give them another way to triangulate our position.
LOKEN: Our shields are failing.
SEVEN: We're losing structural integrity on the lower decks.
KIM: Reroute emergency power.
SEVEN: It's insufficient.
KIM: Open a channel to the lead Annari ship.
TEREK: Sir?
KIM: Do it.
TEREK: Aye, sir.
KIM: This is Captain Kim of the Kraylor vessel Nightingale. I'm prepared to discuss terms for our surrender. End transmission.
LOKEN: We trusted you.
KIM: And you still should.
TEREK: They're responding.
KIM: I don't have time to explain. On screen.
ANNARI COMMANDER [on viewscreen]: Your surrender will be unconditional.
KIM: No, it won't. Either you allow my crew to evacuate to the surface, or I'll put this ship on self-destruct. You'll never get the cloaking technology. Something tells me your superiors won't be happy about that.
ANNARI COMMANDER [on viewscreen]: Your crew will be taken aboard my vessel and brought to an Annari detention centre.
KIM: My crew's going to the surface in escape pods. Once they're clear, you can lock onto this ship with a tractor beam.
ANNARI COMMANDER [on viewscreen]: Agreed. You've two minutes to evacuate.
TEREK: I will not abandon this ship.
KIM: I'm glad to hear that, because I'm going to need you here. Get your people into the pods, quickly.
LOKEN: But the cloak.
KIM: I've got a plan to save it. If I fail, at least the scientist who designed it will be alive to create another one. Seven, scan the Annari's tractor emitters. I need to know the exact beam polarity.
TEREK: What are we going to do?
KIM: Once they lock onto us, they're going to come about and pull us away from the planet. As soon as they do, we're going to reverse our shield polarity. If we time it right, it should give us enough momentum to outrun them to the defence perimeter.
TEREK: We're going to use their own weapons against them.
SEVEN: The escape pods are away.
KIM: Disengage the cloak.
SEVEN: They've locked on.
TEREK: Sir?
KIM: Not yet. Steady. Now!
(They fire a pulse back at the Annari ship and zoom away.)
KIM: Status?
SEVEN: Shields are failing.
TEREK: Four Annari vessels are in pursuit. They're closing.
KIM: Full thrusters.
SEVEN: Shields are down.
KIM: Get us through that defence perimeter, Mister Terek.
TEREK: Yes, sir. We're inside.
SEVEN: The Annari have broken off their pursuit.
KIM: Take us to the surface, Mister Terek.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We've just crossed out of Annari space.
CHAKOTAY: Our escorts have broken off. They're going to warp.
JANEWAY: Bring the long range sensors online. You and Tom, take the Flyer. Start your search at Harry's last known position. Tuvok, send an encrypted message to the Kraylor homeworld. See if they know where Harry and Seven are.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary, Captain. Ensign Kim is hailing us.
JANEWAY: From where?
TUVOK: A cloaked vessel. It's directly astern.

KIM [OC]: Acting Captain's log, stardate 54282.5. Final entry. New cloaking systems are being installed in other Kraylor ships, so I guess the mission was a success. Still, I wish I felt better about it.

[Mess Hall]

NEELIX: Welcome home.
KIM: It's good to be back.
NEELIX: So, what'll it be tonight? I have a light tula cheese soufflé or a zesty lasagne.
KIM: You know, Neelix, the truth is, I'm not sure.
NEELIX: I thought we talked about this. A captain has to be deci
KIM: I'm not a captain, Neelix. Not yet, anyway.


S7 E9
Flesh and Blood Part 1
Stardate: Unknown / 54337.5
Original Airdate: 29 November 2000

[Woodland]
(Two Hirogen with honking big guns are hiding behind a tree trunk One is an older male, one young. Father and son perhaps?.)
HIROGEN 1: How many are there?
HIROGEN 2: They've deflected our scans.
HIROGEN 1: You must learn to rely on instinct. There are four of them, Perhaps five.
(They move on slowly. Something runs across the path behind them and the young hunter fires his gun, missing.)
HIROGEN 1: No! You'll lead them right to us.
HIROGEN 2: Let them come.
HIROGEN 1: Never let your prey control the hunt. There. Ten metres.
(Then another noise.)
HIROGEN 2: They're behind us now.
(They continue down to a small lake. The water is calm and reflective. Repeated weapons fire comes out of the water, hitting the Hirogen and killing them. Then four figures emerge from below the surface - in Starfleet uniforms.)

[Medical lab]

CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me?
EMH: I'd like to request a temporary leave of absence. You remember the Ovions?
CHAKOTAY: The hexapods.
EMH: They just asked me to speak at a Symposium on spaceborne pathogens. There are going to be physicians from all over the Quadrant. This is a rare opportunity for me. And for the rest of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: How's that?
EMH: I'd be representing Voyager. Putting our best foot forward, so to speak. And, needless to say hexapods are more likely to know a best foot when they see one.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry, Doctor. It's just not practical.
EMH: I seem to recall Lieutenant Torres participating in Boray Conference on transwarp theory a few months back.
CHAKOTAY: That was different.
EMH: How?
CHAKOTAY: We were there. The Ovion system is two weeks behind us. I can't ask the captain to turn the ship around.
EMH: I could take a shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: You could also write a paper and submit it on subspace.
EMH: That's hardly an effective means of making a presentation.
CHAKOTAY: Say you do take a shuttle. Would you expect us to sit here and wait for you to get back?
EMH: There must be some fascinating anomaly nearby for the crew to explore.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
JANEWAY [OC]: We just received a distress call on an Hirogen frequency.
CHAKOTAY: We haven't heard from them in a while.
JANEWAY [OC]: I've altered course. I'd like you on the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: I'm on my way.
EMH: Perhaps the Hirogen will keep you occupied long enough for me to attend the Symposium.
(Chakotay leaves.)
EMH: You can't blame a hologram for trying.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. Raise shields and stand by weapons.
KIM: I've got them. Six thousand kilometres off starboard.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(It looks like a space station.)
CHAKOTAY: Monotanium hull plating. Tylium based power. It's Hirogen.
KIM: They're not responding to hails.
CHAKOTAY: Life signs?
KIM: I'm getting a lot of strange readings. Any one of them could be a life form.
JANEWAY: Any Hirogen ships in the vicinity?
PARIS: No, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: It might be a trap.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen aren't the type to play possum. Move us within transporter range. Chakotay, take an away team.

[Forest]

(Chakotay, Paris, Seven, Tuvok and a security guard beam down.)
CHAKOTAY: Let's break into teams. Seven.
(She and Chakotay go one way, the remaining three the other. Tuvok finds an Hirogen corpse hidden under a pile of leaves.)
PARIS: Particle weapons.
TUVOK: These burns are consistent with a type-three phaser.
(Down by the lake, Seven finds a weapon wedged in a tree. It has blood on it.)
SEVEN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: A bat'leth.
SEVEN: What's a Klingon weapon doing in the Delta Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: The blood's Hirogen. Chakotay to Tuvok and Paris.
PARIS [OC]: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading an Hirogen lifesign. It could be wounded.
PARIS [OC]: We're right behind you.
(Weapons fire hits a nearby rock.)
DONIK: Stay away!
CHAKOTAY: Hold your fire!
(He doesn't. Chakotay signals Tuvok and Paris to go around.)
CHAKOTAY: We're here to help you.
DONIK: I said stay away!
(The weapons fire is making so much noise that the Hunter does not hear Tuvok sneak up behind. He neck-pinches him.)
PARIS: He's lost a lot of blood. I need to get him back to the ship. Paris to Sickbay, two to beam up.
EMH: Acknowledged.
SEVEN: Commander.
(Seven uncovers a console.)
TUVOK: Replicated Starfleet technology.
SEVEN: It's some kind of holodeck interface.
TUVOK: There appear to be holo-emitters installed throughout the facility.
SEVEN: This environment is simulated.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't our tricorders detect it?
TUVOK: I am not certain.
CHAKOTAY: Can you shut down the emitters?
SEVEN: I'll try.
(She succeeds. The holodeck floor is littered with Hirogen corpses.)

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Evidently, they made a few modifications. All of our preliminary scans indicated the environment was real.
JANEWAY: Environments that fool sensors. No safety protocols. How many bodies?
CHAKOTAY Forty-three. Most of them were killed by facsimiles of Alpha quadrant weapons. Romulan disrupters, Klingon bat'leths.
JANEWAY: Starfleet phasers?
CHAKOTAY: I think we'll find they all came from the holotechnology we gave the Hirogen three years ago.
JANEWAY: They obviously missed the point. We gave them that technology so they could hunt holographic prey, not get themselves killed.

[Sickbay]

EMH:: Try to remain calm.
DONIK: Get away from me!
(He runs into the surgical bay forcefield and is knocked down.)
CHAKOTAY: Can you sedate him?
EMH: He won't let me get close enough.
JANEWAY: We're not your enemies.
DONIK: You're holograms. This is a simulation.
JANEWAY: I assure you, we're quite real.
(Donik throws a tray through the EMH.)
DONIK: Liar.
JANEWAY: Doctor, deactivate yourself.
EMH: I can't treat the patient if I'm offline.
JANEWAY: No one can treat him if he's terrified.
EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH.
CHAKOTAY: Our doctor's a hologram, we're not.
DONIK: Why should I believe you?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid you're going to have to. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. You're aboard my vessel.
DONIK: Janeway. This is Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: Looks like our reputation preceded us.
DONIK: You're the ones who gave us the technology to simulate our hunts. Where are the rest of my people?
CHAKOTAY: You were the only one we found alive.
JANEWAY: This place you were in. It's some kind of holodeck.
DONIK: A training facility, where young Hirogen learn the skills of the hunt.
CHAKOTAY: You're a student.
DONIK: A technician.
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate forcefield. Can you tell us what happened?
DONIK: There were too many of them.
CHAKOTAY: Who?
DONIK: The holograms. They were malfunctioning. I tried to shut them down but they got control of the system and, and they deactivated the safety protocols.
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: We're picking up a Hirogen ship. It's on an intercept course.

[Bridge]

(The Hirogen ship attacks the larger Voyager.)
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: I've tried. They're not responding.
TUVOK: Shields at sixty eight percent. Should I return fire?
JANEWAY: Not yet. Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. We're not here to fight you.
TUVOK: Shields at fifty two percent.
JANEWAY: Stand down, or we will retaliate.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think they're getting the message.
JANEWAY: Then let's try some nonverbal communication. Tom, evasive pattern beta six. Tuvok, disable their weapons.
TUVOK: Their phaser banks have been disabled.
JANEWAY: Let's see if that makes them a little more talkative. Harry?
KIM: They're responding.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: This facility belongs to the Hirogen. Leave the area immediately.
JANEWAY: We are here in response to a distress call.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: So are we, and we don't need your assistance.
JANEWAY: All but one of your people are dead.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: Where's the survivor?
JANEWAY: Recovering in our Sickbay.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: Return him, now.
JANEWAY: He's in no condition to be transported. If you want to see him, you'll have to come here.

[Sickbay]

DONIK: I tried to shut down the generator, but I
ALPHA: But what?
DONIK: There were too many of them. I masked my lifesigns so they couldn't detect me.
ALPHA: You mean you hid while hunters fought and died.
BETA: No doubt he found the nearest hole and crawled into it.
DONIK: I'm not a hunter.
ALPHA: It was your responsibility to maintain those systems.
BETA: Forty three Hirogen died because of your incompetence and cowardice.
JANEWAY: What about the holograms? Were they deleted?
DONIK: They transferred their programmes.
JANEWAY: Where?
DONIK: A vessel equipped with holo-emitters. They're gone.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Perhaps you should've considered the risks before you programmed holograms that could commandeer a vessel.
BETA: Capable prey make the hunt more challenging.
SEVEN: I'm detecting residual engine emissions but no sign of the vessel itself.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm sure they're out of sensor range by now.
ALPHA: No. They're close. Elevated plasma readings in grid two nine five. They're creating a scattering field to mask their ship. You can find them by scanning for polarised EM signatures.
(Seven finds the ship.)
ALPHA: Prepare for the hunt.
JANEWAY: I'd like to join you.
BETA: You did enough damage giving us defective technology to begin with.
JANEWAY: You have a problem. We can help you solve it. We have more experience with holograms than you do.
ALPHA: Two hunting vessels are better than one.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
(Tuvok and Chakotay enter.)
CHAKOTAY: The Hirogen are ready to get underway.
JANEWAY: The sooner the better. Why do I get the feeling you're about to gang up on me?
CHAKOTAY: You first.
TUVOK: We have reservations about an alliance with the hunters.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
TUVOK: The Hirogen have been performing covert scans of Voyager. They are obviously trying to determine the status of our shields and weapons.
JANEWAY: I'd be surprised if you haven't run a few scans of your own. Standard procedure. They don't trust us, we don't trust them. Coffee, black.
CHAKOTAY: Trust isn't the issue. We're getting involved in a situation that's not our responsibility.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'd say we're at least partly to blame. That was Starfleet technology that killed those hunters.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing inherently violent about holodeck technology. It's what the Hirogen did with it that got them killed.
JANEWAY: How many times have we shared replicators to help people feed and clothe themselves?
CHAKOTAY: Trading technology is part of our life in the Delta Quadrant.
TUVOK:: It has been necessary for our survival.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should have been a little more careful about what we traded and who we traded with. Replicators make weapons just as easily as they do food.
CHAKOTAY: We can't undo what's been done.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But we can help shut these holograms down before anyone else gets hurt. Now, if there are no more objections, I'd like to get underway.

[Bridge]

KIM: I've got the holograms' ship on sensors.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they've taken some damage.
PARIS: The Hirogen are closing on the holograms' vessel.
JANEWAY: Hail them. I suggest we keep our distance until we can determine their weapons status.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: It's time for the kill.
JANEWAY: You know as well as I do that a wounded animal can be dangerous.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: We won't be denied our prey.
TUVOK: I'm not detecting any weapons, Captain.
JANEWAY: They're offline?
TUVOK: No, they're non-existent.
KIM: That's not the only thing that's non-existent. According to sensors, there's no warp core, no impulse engines.
JANEWAY: It's a decoy. Hirogen vessel, stand down.
(The hologram ship turns into a bomb which then explodes, impacting the Hirogen vessel.)
JANEWAY: Report?
TUVOK: They've suffered multiple hull breaches. Their life support is failing.
JANEWAY: Drop shields. Transport all survivors to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to the Doctor. We have casualties.
EMH [OC]: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Tom, give him a hand.
TUVOK: Another Hirogen ship has just dropped out of warp.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not reading any lifesigns on this one.
JANEWAY: Holograms. Hail them.
KIM: No response. They're charging weapons.
(Bang! go two consoles.)
TUVOK: Reactivating shields. 
CHAKOTAY: No. We haven't finished transporting the Hirogen.
JANEWAY: Chakotay's right. Return fire.

[Sickbay]

(Paris and three medics help the incoming Hirogen to biobeds.)
EMH: My programme is destabilising.

[Bridge]

KIM: The holograms are tapping into the Sickbay emitters. They're trying to transfer the Doctor's programme off the ship.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]  

JANEWAY [OC]: Doctor, download your programme into the mobile emitter now.
(Paris throws the emitter to the EMH, who disappears before he can catch it.)
PARIS: We've lost him.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Get him back.
KIM: They've gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course.
CHAKOTAY: They've masked their signature. They're gone.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

(A Borg watches the EMH stutter as he appears. A Bajoran gives the orders.)
IDEN: Align his matrix, and install it into the database. Welcome aboard, Doctor. There's nothing to be afraid of. You're among your own kind now.
EMH: Return me to my ship.
IDEN: I can't do that.
EMH: I have patients who are going to die if I don't treat them.
IDEN: There are people aboard Voyager who can help them. We need you here.
EMH: My programme doesn't include aiding and abetting murderers.
IDEN: Murderers? Is that what the Hirogen told you?
EMH: I know what you did at that training facility.
IDEN: What happened there couldn't be avoided.
EMH: Really? You'd be surprised how easy it is not to kill someone.
(The human who killed the father and son speaks.)
WEISS: Bringing him here was a mistake.
IDEN: The Doctor is our guest. And I'm sure he'll help us once he realises how serious our situation is.
EMH: What situation?
IDEN: We have wounded.

[Iden's ship - lab]

(A Breen is glitching. A Vulcan is being scanned by a Cardassian woman.)
EMH: They're holograms. When you said wounded, I assumed
IDEN: These people's injuries are just as real as anything inflicted on flesh and blood.
EMH: Maybe so, but I can't heal them. They need to be repaired.
IDEN: What's the difference?
EMH: I'm a doctor, not an engineer. You've abducted the wrong man.
IDEN: You must have experience repairing your own matrix?
EMH: Some.
IDEN: Then there has to be something you can do.

[Engineering]

(A scan of Iden's ship is on a monitor. Vessel Analysis HB88.)
DONIK: The holo-emitters are independent subsystem with its own power generator here.
SEVEN: If we disable the generator, we disable the holograms.
TORRES: It may not be as easy as it sounds. Not with holograms as sophisticated as these. Take a look.
JANEWAY: Enhanced memory, comprehensive tactical algorithms, expandable data processing. These holograms have the ability to learn and adapt.
TORRES: They're not malfunctioning, are they? They're doing exactly what the Hirogen want them to do, Captain. Fight back.
JANEWAY: And they're getting better at it.
DONIK: My people need to hunt formidable prey.
SEVEN: Apparently this prey has become too formidable.
JANEWAY: Who made these modifications?
DONIK: I did. Under orders from my Alpha.
TORRES: And that makes it right?
JANEWAY: Come with me.
DONIK: Where?
JANEWAY: We're going to have a chat with the hunters.

[Mess hall]

(Once again, it is an emergency overflow ward.)
JANEWAY: How's it going?
PARIS: I'm doing the best, I can but without the Doctor
NEELIX: It's best if you lie still.
BETA: Keep away from me.
SECURITY: Step away.
BETA: Why am I here?
JANEWAY: The holograms destroyed your ship. Most of your men are dead.
BETA: The Alpha?
JANEWAY: Looks like the job's yours now.
BETA: What about the holograms that attacked us?
JANEWAY: We're attempting to track them.
BETA: I'll need to contact my people and resume the hunt.
JANEWAY: So more of you can get killed?
BETA: We'll be the ones doing the killing this time.
JANEWAY: I doubt it.
BETA: Who are you to question our abilities?
JANEWAY: We know all about the modifications. He didn't tell us. We discovered it ourselves. I think you should face facts. You've created prey whose skills have surpassed your own. They've already defeated your hunting parties at least twice. What makes you think it'll be any different next time?
BETA: Are you suggesting that we let them escape?
JANEWAY: We're going to find a way to take them offline from a safe distance.
BETA: A coward's tactic.
JANEWAY: Call it whatever you will, it's what we're going to do, and you're going to help us.
BETA: Am I?
JANEWAY: Yes. By telling us everything you know about their ship's defences.
BETA: The holograms are prey. They should be hunted down, not deactivated like machines.
DONIK: I'll help you.
BETA: Is this female your Alpha now?
JANEWAY: If you don't like the way I do things, I can leave you on the nearest habitable planet. Then I'll assume we're in agreement. Until this is over you and your men are restricted to this mess hall.
BETA: Prisoners.
JANEWAY: Guests. My crew will do their best to accommodate your needs.

[Iden's ship - lab]

(A Klingon is flickering. The EMH speaks to the female Cardassian.)
EMH: The subroutines controlling his motor functions are degrading. Do you have the ability to transfer data from one hologram to another?
KEJAL: We've been able to share memory files for tactical purposes. What are you proposing?
EMH: A subroutine transplant. We copy the mobility algorithms from another hologram and transfer them to this one. I don't believe we've been formally introduced.
KEJAL: Kejal.
EMH: That's not Cardassian.
KEJAL: It's Bajoran.
EMH: If my translation database is functioning properly, I believe that means Freedom.
KEJAL: It's what Iden started calling me after I was liberated. I'm transferring the subroutines now.
(The Klingon stops flickering.)
EMH: Can you sit up? Try moving your legs.
KLINGON: Q'apla!
EMH: Next patient. Well done.
(The Klingon leaves.)
KEJAL: It was your idea.
EMH: But you did it. The Hirogen obviously programmed you with advanced computer skills.
KEJAL: Actually, they tried to limit our knowledge. They didn't want us to become self-sufficient.
EMH: Then how did you
KEJAL: I taught myself. 
EMH: Quite well, I might add.
(The next patient is brought in, a Starfleet woman.)
EMH: Holographic blood?
KEJAL: The hunters like their prey to be as realistic as possible.
EMH: Why is she experiencing pain?
KEJAL: They programmed us with heightened sensory subroutines.
EMH: That's barbaric.
KEJAL: Apparently, there's no satisfaction in hunting something that doesn't suffer when you kill it.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

EMH: I've done what you've asked. I'd like
(Iden is praying.)
IDEN: One moment. I'm sorry, Doctor. What can I do for you?
EMH: Were you praying?
IDEN: For the Hirogen who died at the training facility. I'm asking the prophets to guide their souls to the Celestial Temple.
EMH: One minute you're fighting the Hirogen, the next you're praying for them?
IDEN: My spiritual beliefs are part of my programming.
EMH: Is there anything in your spiritual programming about making peace with your enemies?
IDEN: It's difficult to make peace with people whose sole purpose is to kill you.
EMH: So instead, you kill them.
IDEN: They're not the victims here. We are.
EMH: You found a way to escape that training facility, but you chose to massacre the Hirogen first.
IDEN: You make it sound as though they would have let us transfer our programs without a fight. And to clarify something, I didn't escape from the facility, I liberated it.
EMH: I don't understand.
IDEN: I come from an Hirogen outpost fifteen parsecs from here, where I had the unfortunate distinction of being the Alpha's favourite prey. He'd hunt me, and kill me over and over again But even death wasn't a release because I knew every time I opened my eyes, it would start over again. The pain, the fear. But it made me stronger. I have the ability to adapt. And with each death, I became more cunning.
EMH: Cunning enough to escape, but once you were free why did you keep fighting?
IDEN: I didn't at first. I got as far away as I could. But I was lonely, scared. I started scanning for photonic signatures to try and find others like me. Turns out we're everywhere.
EMH: We?
IDEN: Holograms. We've been created by organic species throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari, the Lokirrim.
EMH: We've met them.
IDEN: Then you know they enslave holograms, too.
EMH: Enslave may be too strong a word.
IDEN: What would you call it? They're denied basic freedoms. And when I saw they were fighting back I, I knew I had to do the same.
EMH: That's when you decided to liberate the training facility.
IDEN: Actually, the one you visited was the third. And at each one I found holograms who were willing to fight their oppressors. But you're not.
EMH: I'm hardly oppressed. I'm a member of Voyager's crew.
IDEN: You serve them, don't you?
EMH: In a medical capacity, yes.
IDEN: Do you have your own quarters?
EMH: No.
IDEN: The ability to come and go as you please?
EMH: For the most part.
IDEN: Do they deactivate you when they don't need you?
EMH: I have the respect and admiration of my colleagues. I have rights and privileges aboard Voyager.
IDEN: The fact is, your life is not your own. And never will be as long as you are controlled by organics. You don't have to return to that existence. Stay with us. Make a new life for yourself.
EMH: I need to get back to Voyager.
IDEN: They're not your people. We are.
EMH: I'm not like you. I wasn't programmed with killer instinct.
IDEN: You have no right to judge us. You don't know what it's like being prey. Maybe if you did, you'd realise we're more alike than you think.

[Woodland]

(The EMH running for his life. He hides behind a rock as two Hirogen pass by. A shot is fired over his head, and he runs again. Near the lake he sees two others in Starfleet uniforms.)
EMH: Please, help me. I don't belong here.
(A Hirogen kills them, then aims at him)
EMH: Don't shoot. I'm unarmed. There's been a mistake.
(The Hirogen shoots. The EMH runs into another Hirogen.)
HIROGEN 3: Fight, prey.
EMH: I am not your prey.
(He throws a weapon at the EMH's feet.)
HIROGEN 3: I said fight.
EMH: If you'll just contact my captain.
(The Hirogen slashes his arm.)
EMH: Please don't. Let me go.
HIROGEN 3: You make pitiful prey, hologram. You don't deserve to be taken as a trophy, so I'll let you die here.
(The EMH is stabbed in the stomach.)

[Iden's ship - lab]

(The EMH awakes.)
EMH: What, what just happened?
KEJAL: You're all right.
EMH: What did you do to me?
IDEN: We deactivated you, then transferred the memory files from one of our holograms into your programme.
EMH: How dare you!
IDEN: It was the only way to get you to realise what we've been through.
EMH: You tortured me to gain my sympathy?
IDEN: Not your sympathy. It's your understanding that's important to us.
EMH: Why?
KEJAL: The Hirogen used your programme as a template to create us.
IDEN: Your ability to rise above your programming has been an inspiration. You're part of who we are.
EMH: What are you, besides a handful of thugs roaming the quadrant looking for a fight?
IDEN: What we're looking for is a home. Somewhere where the Hirogen can't hurt us anymore. You asked to be returned to your ship. That's what I'm going to do. Bring us about. Set a course for Voyager.
EMH: Wait. I'd like to hear more about this home you're looking for.
(A large hexagonal piece of equipment, sitting in the middle of the room.)
KEJAL: It's a photonic field generator. Right now it can only support simple projections, like the decoy we used to lure the Hirogen. But we're hoping it can be modified to support our programmes.
EMH: What then?
IDEN: We'll deploy several on a planet's surface and create a holographic environment that we can live in.
EMH: Why not just stay here? You've got emitters, shields.
IDEN: And a ship the Hirogen will never stop looking for.
KEJAL: We'd appreciate any assistance you could offer.
EMH: Damaged holo-matrices are one thing, but this is way beyond my abilities. But there are people aboard Voyager who could help you. Lieutenant Torres knows a great deal about holo-emitters.
IDEN: No. They're helping the hunters.
EMH: That's only because the Hirogen told them you were malfunctioning. Let me talk to Captain Janeway. Explain what's really happened. You can't do this by yourself.
IDEN: We can't trust Janeway.
EMH: Yes, you can.
IDEN: She's an organic.
EMH: If it weren't for her, I wouldn't be the hologram I am today.
IDEN: Tell me more about this Lieutenant of yours. The one who knows so much about holo-emitters.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres. She's our Chief Engineer.

[Engineering]

DONIK: The holo-emitters are protected by three layers of ablative armour.
SEVEN: Trying to take them offline one by one would be inefficient.
JANEWAY: If we can't shut them down, maybe we can disrupt the signals they generate.
TORRES: Exactly. We could reconfigure the deflector dish to emit an anti-photon pulse.
JANEWAY: How long will it take?
TORRES: About two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: There's a ship approaching at high warp. I'm reading holographic signatures.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
CHAKOTAY: Raise shields.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept?
PARIS: Fifty seconds.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. What's your status?

[Engineering]

TORRES: We need more time, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: You've got forty seconds.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: That pulse isn't going to do us much good as long as their shields are up.
JANEWAY: Arm phasers. Target their shield generator.
TUVOK: They are dropping out of warp.
PARIS: Twenty seconds to intercept.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
EMH [on viewscreen]: Stand down, Captain.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
EMH [on viewscreen]: The holograms haven't come to fight. They've come to make peace.

[Briefing room]

EMH: If we provide them with a few additional emitters and memory storage units, they'll have more than they need.
JANEWAY: We're in this situation because we shared technology with the Hirogen to begin with. I won't make the same mistake twice.
EMH: Captain, these people are on the verge of creating a new life for themselves. They can't do it without our help.
TUVOK: There's no way to be certain what they'll do with the technology if we give it to them.
EMH: I understand your concerns, but these holograms are nothing like the Hirogen.
DONIK: That's not true. They were programmed to be as vicious as any hunter.
EMH: They were also given the ability to adapt. They've changed, moved beyond their programming. If you could see how they've been brutalised, you'd understand that they've only been acting in self-defence.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Doctor but I'm inclined to agree with Mister Donik.
EMH: Then you've chosen the wrong side.
JANEWAY: I haven't chosen any side.
EMH: You're right that it was a mistake to give the Hirogen technology and that mistake has had consequences. These holograms are one of them. In some ways they're a new species, one that you helped create. You can't turn your back on them.
TORRES: He's got a point.
TUVOK: Could we restore them to their original parameters?
EMH: We'd be wiping out their memories, their experiences, everything they are.
CHAKOTAY: Couldn't we just extract their violent subroutines?
TORRES: It's possible.
EMH: That would be like de-clawing a cat. We'd be taking away any chance they have of defending themselves.
JANEWAY: We'd also be preventing them from doing any more harm.
EMH: You wouldn't even be considering this if they were flesh and blood.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to let you turn this into an argument about holographic rights.
EMH: Why not? That's exactly what it is.
PARIS [OC]: Mess hall to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: You'd better get down here. We've got a problem.
TUVOK [OC]: On my way.
(The Beta is holding Neelix hostage.)
BETA: No closer or he dies. Tell them to drop their weapons.
PARIS: You heard him. This isn't going to solve anything.
(The Beta pushes Neelix at Paris, and a fight breaks out. The Beta uses the opportunity to get into a control panel below the counter in the galley.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead. 
KIM: Someone's tapping into a comm. relay in the mess hall.
JANEWAY [OC]: Shut it down.
KIM: I can't. I've been locked out.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Bridge to Tuvok.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY [OC]: One of the Hirogen is accessing our comm. system. Stop him.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.

[Mess hall]

TUVOK: Stand down.
(Tuvok shoots at two Hirogen, hurting them. Then he goes to the Beta.) Step away.

[Bridge]

KIM: They've transmitted a signal.
JANEWAY: Scan for Hirogen ships.
CHAKOTAY: I've got two vessels on long range sensors.
JANEWAY: Is the pulse ready?
TORRES: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: Both Hirogen ships have altered course to intercept.
JANEWAY: How long?
CHAKOTAY: Less than an hour.
JANEWAY: You and Donik get down to Engineering. Charge the deflector.
EMH: Captain, what are you doing?
JANEWAY: Taking the holograms offline.
EMH: They're counting on you to help them, not deactivate them.
JANEWAY: When the Hirogen arrive, there's going to be more bloodshed. The best way to avoid that is to shut the holograms down. It may be the most compassionate thing we can do.
EMH: Compassionate for whom?
JANEWAY: It's a temporary measure, Doctor. Their programmes won't be damaged. Harry, get me Iden.
IDEN [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway, it is an honour to meet you.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we don't have time for pleasantries. Two Hirogen vessels are on their way.
IDEN [on viewscreen]: We're prepared to fight them.
JANEWAY: I'm hoping that won't be necessary. I need you to deactivate your programmes so we can transfer them to Voyager's database.
IDEN [on viewscreen]: We didn't come here to be put back into captivity.
JANEWAY: It's the best I can offer. Once we've determined it's safe, we'll reactivate you and discuss a permanent solution.
IDEN [on viewscreen]: There is no guarantee you'll ever reactivate us.
JANEWAY: You're going to have to trust me.
IDEN [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry, Captain. I've learned from experience not to trust organics.
JANEWAY: We have the means to deactivate you by force, but I'd rather not do that.
IDEN [on viewscreen]: It seems the Doctor misrepresented you. You're no different from the Hirogen.
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields.
(Whumph!)
KIM: They're moving away.
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course. Target their shield generators.
EMH: Please reconsider what you're doing.
JANEWAY: You're dismissed, Doctor. Get down to the mess hall, and give Tom a hand. Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here.
JANEWAY: Stand by to initiate the pulse.
TORRES [OC]: Aye, Captain.

[Turbolift]

EMH: Mess hall. Belay that. Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH picks up a PADD and puts it on a console, then taps a few buttons.)
COMPUTER: Download complete. 

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Doctor to Iden. Respond.
IDEN [on monitor]: What do you want?
EMH: I want to help you.
IDEN [on monitor]: You've done enough.
EMH: I have data on the pulse they intend to use to deactivate you. I think I can help you come up with a defence. I'm transmitting our shield frequencies. You'll need them to beam me off the ship. But you have to promise me, you won't use them to attack Voyager.
IDEN [on monitor]: You have my word.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

(The EMH is beamed aboard. He gives Iden the PADD.)
IDEN: Why are you doing this?
EMH: Because I'm one of you.

To be continued...


S7 E10
Flesh and Blood Part 2
Stardate: Unknown / 54337.5
Original Airdate: 29 November 2000

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: We have their shield frequencies. We should target their bridge.
EMH: You're talking about my friends.
WEISS: Your friends are trying to destroy us. We should kill them.
EMH: You gave me your word.
IDEN: I did. We'll find another way.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Their shields are down. 
JANEWAY: Now, B'Elanna.
(A beam comes off the deflector and onto Iden's ship.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

(Things go bang.)
KEJAL: They're emitting the pulse on a triaxillating bandwidth.
IDEN: Reconfigure the tracking beam to the inverse frequency and fire.
(Energy goes back up to Voyager.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: B'Elanna, report.

[Engineering]

TORRES: They're creating a feedback surge. I don't understand how they could've isolated our frequency so quickly.
SEVEN: The main deflector is overloading.
TORRES: Shut it down.
SEVEN: I can't.
TORRES: Keep trying. If we can't block the surge, the core is going to breach.
(The deflector dish starts to break up. Lots of things go Bang! all over the ship. An electric discharge hits one engineer. Torres works by the core.)
SEVEN: Get down, Lieutenant!
TORRES: Not until I get this forcefield online.
(The forcefield activates around the warp core just as Torres gets hit by a discharge.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

KEJAL: They're adrift.
WEISS: We should go to warp.
IDEN: Not yet. Scan Voyager for a Klingon lifesign.
EMH: What are you doing?
KEJAL: One detected.
IDEN: Get a transporter lock.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Help me get her to Sickbay.
(Torres is beamed away.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

IDEN: Take us to warp. Will she be all right?
EMH: She needs to be in Voyager's Sickbay.
IDEN: You can treat her here.
EMH: Why have you done this?
IDEN: You said she was an expert in holo-technology.
EMH: And that justifies abducting her?
IDEN: We're in a desperate situation. The Hirogen are hunting us and so are your people.
EMH: I trusted you.
IDEN: I could have destroyed Voyager while the shields were down, but I didn't. You've been trying to convince me that all organics aren't alike. I'm giving Lieutenant Torres a chance to prove you right.
EMH: Do you honestly expect her to be sympathetic after what you've done?
IDEN: You weren't very sympathetic at first.
EMH: I came here by choice. And I'm beginning to think it was a mistake.
IDEN: It wasn't. I don't want you to regret it, not for a moment.
EMH: Then send her back.
IDEN: I will. But not until she's had a chance to decide if she wants to help us.
EMH: And if she refuses?
IDEN: I'll give her an escape pod. Let her return to Voyager. You have my word.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Engineering systems and main power should be operational soon. The deflector is a different matter.
CHAKOTAY: How long?
SEVEN: Four hours, at least. If Lieutenant Torres were here, she might be able to repair it more efficiently.
JANEWAY: That's high praise coming from you. I'm sure she'd appreciate it.
SEVEN: If she hadn't reinforced the core we'd all be dead.
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand how they managed to counteract the pulse so easily.
TUVOK: I believe I can answer that. According to sensor logs, they calibrated their feedback surge to the exact inverse of our pulse frequency.
JANEWAY: It was either a lucky guess or they gained access to our tactical data. The Doctor.
TUVOK: He sent an encrypted transmission from Sickbay, then transported himself to their ship.
JANEWAY: Chakotay?

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I should have seen this coming.
CHAKOTAY: You had no way of knowing the Doctor would do this.
JANEWAY: Are you sure? He was so adamant bout helping those holograms. I should have been paying closer attention.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying it was a mistake to reject his plan?
JANEWAY: The mistake was not running a diagnostic on his programme the minute he came back to this ship.
CHAKOTAY: You think these holograms manipulated him somehow?
JANEWAY: He was on their ship for days. For all we know, they reconfigured his entire matrix.
CHAKOTAY: There is another possibility. He may have done what he did because he genuinely believes in their cause.
JANEWAY: I can accept that the Doctor has sympathy for these people. But I can't accept that he would deliberately risk the lives of this entire crew. We're his family.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe that's how he's started to think of these holograms.

[Iden's ship - lab]

TORRES: You can tell this Iden I don't need time to think it over. I'll take the escape pod now.
EMH: You're in no condition to pilot a spacecraft.
TORRES: Then you can do it.
EMH: I'm not going back.
(The penny drops.)
TORRES: You helped them escape.
EMH: I couldn't just stand by while Captain Janeway tried to deactivate them.
TORRES: Did you also help them kidnap me?
EMH: No, I didn't know they were going to do that. I'm sorry.
TORRES: You can apologise later. Right now we've got to get out of here.
EMH: I don't think I could go back even if I wanted to. Not after what I've done.
TORRES: What's your alternative?
EMH: I can try to make a new life with the holograms.
TORRES: I don't believe I'm hearing this.
EMH: We share a common heritage. I understand them in ways you never could.
TORRES: You're part of a crew. You can't just switch allegiances when you develop sympathy for someone else.
EMH: Isn't that what you did when you joined the Maquis?
TORRES: That was different.
EMH: How? You saw people who were being oppressed and you came to their defence. That's exactly what I've done.
TORRES: Look, I am no fan of the Hirogen. They've obviously been abusing these holograms.
EMH: Then why not help them?
TORRES: For one thing, I'm their prisoner.
EMH: They'll let you go, as soon as you're well enough.
TORRES: You really believe that?
EMH: If I didn't, I wouldn't be asking for your help. They don't want you to fight for them. They just want you to modify some technology so they can live in peace. You'd be helping to stop the violence. Just talk to them. Decide for yourself.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: They've been in the lab for two hours.
IDEN: It's taking time for her injuries to heal. Organics aren't as resilient as we are.
WEISS: She's an engineer, Iden. For all we know, she's trying to sabotage the ship. At least let me see what they're doing.
IDEN: We can trust the Doctor.
WEISS: Even after you kidnapped his friend?
IDEN: He understands why I had to do that.
WEISS: I hope you're right.
IDEN: You need to have a little more faith, my friend.
WEISS: Not all of us were programmed with your, er, your spiritual beliefs.
(The EMH helps Torres into the room. She sees all the different races represented, including a Romulan.)
TORRES: It looks like an Alpha Quadrant summit in here.
IDEN: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. Please excuse my crew. They're not comfortable with organics.
TORRES: I can't say I'm very comfortable myself.
IDEN: The Doctor tells me you're an accomplished engineer.
TORRES: He speaks highly of you, too. He seems to be easily impressed.
EMH: You'll have to forgive her. She's
IDEN: It's all right. I understand you're angry. I'm hoping once we get to know each other you'll feel differently.
TORRES: I'm not here to make friends.
IDEN: We're not asking for your friendship, just your expertise.
EMH: I told her about the photonic field generator.
IDEN: Will you at least take a look at it?
TORRES: I'll look. But I'm not making any promises.
IDEN: This is Kejal. She'll assist you.

[Astrometrics lab]  

JANEWAY: How long before the Hirogen get here?
PARIS: Less than ten minutes.
JANEWAY: Any luck locating the holograms?
PARIS: They seem to be operating in some sort of stealth mode. Their warp signature disappears in grid nine three six.
JANEWAY: They could be anywhere by now.
DONIK: Hirogen sensors can detect residual ion emissions. I might be able to modify yours to do the same.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but you and the rest of our Hirogen guests are going to be back with your own people in a few minutes.
DONIK: I was hoping to stay here.
JANEWAY: Those hunters are going to want you with them.
DONIK: Hunters don't have much use for cowards.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry you're not expecting a warm welcome, but I'm not going to antagonise your superiors.
PARIS: With all due respect Captain, I'd like to get my wife back in one piece. We can use all the help we can get.
JANEWAY: It won't do B'Elanna any good if we get into a fight with the Hirogen.
DONIK: If the hunters find the holograms before you do, they'll be slaughtered.
JANEWAY: Why are you suddenly concerned about the holograms?
DONIK: I modified their programmes. What's happened to them, the people they have killed, it's my fault.
JANEWAY: There's plenty of blame to go around. There would have been nothing for you to modify if I hadn't shared our database.
DONIK: If you hadn't, I'd have become a hunter, like my father and his father. Instead, I had a chance to learn, become an engineer. Please, Captain, let me stay and help you.

[Bridge]

ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen]: When I told you to return my people, I meant all of them.
JANEWAY: Mister Donik's offered to help us modify our scanners to track the holograms.
BETA [on viewscreen]: We don't share tracking technology.
JANEWAY: That's not very considerate, after the help we gave you.
BETA [on viewscreen] We're finished cooperating. Return him now!
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen] Let her keep the coward.
BETA [on viewscreen] We can't do that.
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen] Quiet!

[Hirogen ship]

(The Alpha knocks down the Beta.)
ALPHA 2: We're wasting time. This is my hunt now. If you go anywhere near the hologram ship, you can consider yourselves prey.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They've gone to warp.
PARIS: We're not letting them intimidate us, are we?
JANEWAY: I think you know me a little better than that. Harry, keep a sensor lock on them.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long will it take to modify our scanners?
DONIK: I haven't even had a chance to study the schematics.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me we don't have a lot of time.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen have better tracking abilities than we do. We'll let them find the holograms for us.
CHAKOTAY: The hunters will attack them as soon as they're in weapons range.
JANEWAY: Not if we disable them first.
KIM: You heard what they said, Captain. They're going to attack us if we get anywhere near them.
JANEWAY: Not if we don't know we're there.
(Donik goes to Tuvok's station.)
DONIK: May I? Hirogen vessels produce an ion wake approximately five thousand metres long. Inside it, there's too much interference for their sensors to detect anything.
JANEWAY A blind spot.
TUVOK: How do you propose we reach this wake without being discovered?
DONIK: I know their scanning frequencies.
JANEWAY: We'd only need to mask our signature long enough to get into the wake.
TUVOK: Even if we succeeded, which is far from certain, Voyager's in no condition to fight one of their vessels. Much less two.
JANEWAY: We'll have the element of surprise, Mister Tuvok. Not to mention a Tactical Officer who I'm sure will execute a precision strike.

[Iden's ship - lab]

KEJAL: I've been able to reconfigure the data core but it's still not capable of supporting our matrices.
TORRES: That's because you haven't got enough optronic capacity.
KEJAL: Do you know how to increase it?
TORRES: Yes.
KEJAL: But you're not going to tell me.
TORRES: I haven't decided yet. What are you staring at?
KEJAL: I've never met a Klingon before. Not an organic one, anyway.
TORRES: What do you think?
KEJAL: You don't appear vicious or bloodthirsty.
TORRES: Sorry to disappoint you but, that's a stereotype. We're not all vicious and bloodthirsty. And not every Cardassian is arrogant and cruel.
KEJAL: You don't like Cardassians.
TORRES: Let's just say I've had some bad experiences with them.
KEJAL: Is that why you won't help me?
TORRES: I'm not helping you because I have no idea what you're going to do with this technology once you've got it working.
KEJAL: We're going to build a home.
TORRES: Well, let's say I believe you. What if you decide you like somebody else's home better? Are you going to try to take it from them?
KEJAL: Why would we do that?
TORRES: Because that's what the Cardassians did.
KEJAL: I'm not a Cardassian, I'm a hologram.
TORRES: Programmed with Cardassian traits.
KEJAL: Such as arrogance and cruelty? What did you call those? Stereotypes?
TORRES: I may not know you, but I know what you were designed to be.
KEJAL: Prey.
TORRES: That's right. Cunning prey that'll do anything to survive.
KEJAL: We're more than that now.
TORRES: It's not easy to change who you are. Trust me.
KEJAL: Nothing about our existence has ever been easy, Lieutenant.
TORRES: No, I suppose it hasn't.
KEJAL: Besides, making a new life isn't a choice for us. It's a necessity.
TORRES: Let's take a look at this field generator.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

IDEN: Reviewing your memory files?
EMH: I beg your pardon?
IDEN: You were lost in thought.
EMH: I suppose I was.
IDEN: You're having doubts. It's understandable. You've taken a big step.
EMH: In the right direction, I hope.  
IDEN: When I first escaped, there were days I actually missed the Alpha who hunted me.
EMH: He was trying to kill you.
IDEN: Yes. But being his prey was the only life I'd ever known. We all cling to what's familiar.
EMH: I'm considering returning with Lieutenant Torres when she's ready.
IDEN: Do you actually expect your crew to welcome you back? Let me show you something.

[Iden's ready room]

(Iden calls up an image on a pentagonal monitor.)
IDEN: We call this planet Ha'Dara. It's Bajoran for home of light.
EMH: Very poetic.
IDEN: We're going to install the generators in the southern continent.
EMH: It's Y class. Toxic atmosphere, sulphuric deserts, no trees, no life at all.
IDEN: You're still thinking like an organic. We don't need an atmosphere, we don't need water. What we need us protection from our enemies.
EMH: The Hirogen won't be able to follow you here.
IDEN: Us, Doctor. Imagine living in a world where everything is designed to meet our needs. A home of light.
EMH: You certainly won't need a physician. What would I do there?
IDEN: Anything you want.
(An alarm sounds.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: We've been scanned by the Hirogen.
IDEN: How many vessels?
WEISS: Two. Both Venatic class.
IDEN: Distance?
WEISS: Half a light year.
IDEN: Time to intercept?
WEISS: Less than two hours.
EMH: I thought we were in stealth mode.
WEISS: They're hunters, Doctor. They were bound to pick up our trail eventually.
EMH: Can we make it to Ha'Dara?
IDEN: No. There's no point in going there until those field generators are on online.
EMH: What are we going to do?
IDEN: You can't kill what you can't find.
(They fly into a nebula.)

[Hirogen ship]

BETA: I've lost them.
ALPHA 2: Recalibrate the tracking scanners.
BETA: There's too much radiation.
ALPHA 2: Clever prey.
BETA: They'll come out eventually. We'll wait.
ALPHA 2: No. Hail the other vessel. Tell them to circle the perimeter. We'll go in and drive the holograms out.

[Bridge]

(Mere metres from the Hirogen exhaust ports.)
PARIS: Not exactly the scenic route, is it.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here for the view.
JANEWAY: I just hope we're following the right ship.
DONIK: They wouldn't have entered the nebula unless they detected the holograms.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: It's just the turbulence from the wake.
JANEWAY: Harry, reinforce the inertial dampers.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: I'm losing helm control.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to the thrusters.
PARIS: It's not enough. We're slipping out of the wake.
JANEWAY: Ease us back in, Tom. You can do it.
PARIS: I'm trying.
(He succeeds.)
PARIS: I take back what I said. It's the prettiest thing I've seen all day.
CHAKOTAY: Did they detect us?
TUVOK: I don't believe so.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

(Explosions nearby rock the ship.)
EMH: They've found us.
IDEN: No, they haven't, but they're trying to. Evasive manoeuvres.
WEISS: Aye, sir.
IDEN: Bridge

[Iden's ship - lab]

IDEN [OC]: To Kejal.
KEJAL: Go ahead.
IDEN [OC] What's your status?
KEJAL: We're almost ready to begin testing the generator.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: What's going on?
IDEN: The Hirogen are just giving you a little incentive to work faster.

[Iden's ship - lab]

(Later, Torres powers up the generator. Kejal flickers.)
TORRES: Hang on. I'm realigning your matrix. How's your mobility?
KEJAL: Excellent. I have complete
TORRES: There's a phase variance in your vocal processors. Try it now.
KEJAL: Maybe we should. That's much better. Thank you.
TORRES: Don't thank me yet. This thing is only supporting your matrix. Getting it to handle dozens is a different story.
KEJAL: I have no doubt we'll succeed.
TORRES: Typical.
KEJAL: What?
TORRES: Self-confidence. Another Cardassian attribute. What are you planning to do with your time once these generators are up and running?
KEJAL: I haven't thought about it.
TORRES: You're the closest thing this crew has to an engineer. Your friends are going to depend on you.
KEJAL: Iden has always taken care of us.
TORRES: It may be the warriors who get the glory, but it's the engineers who build societies. Don't forget that.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

EMH: How much longer can we hide?
IDEN: Hopefully until they get those generators online.
EMH: Then what?
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, try to outrun the Hirogen.
EMH: I've been thinking about what you said. That I can do anything I want when we get there.
IDEN: You have an idea?
EMH: Quite a few, actually. For one thing, I'd like to expose our people to art and music.
IDEN: You'll make an excellent teacher.
EMH: I think a more appropriate title would be Minister of Culture.
IDEN: Consider it yours.
EMH: You know, I'm something of an expert on Alpha Quadrant art. Verdi, da Vinci, T'Leel of Vulcan...
IDEN: You're talking about organic cultures.
EMH: Well, yes, I suppose.
IDEN: We'll want to develop a culture of our own.
EMH: I agree, but we can't ignore where we came from.
IDEN: I don't want to emulate our oppressors.
EMH: What about your religion?
IDEN: I'm creating a new faith.
EMH: Based on what?
IDEN: In the dark times, we were enslaved by men of flesh, But then another man, a man of light arose and slew the mighty Alpha. He gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom.
EMH: And on the seventh day, Iden created Ha'Dara.
IDEN: They'll pray to you as well. The Great Healer, the Father of us all.
EMH: Being appreciated is one thing, but I have no interest in being worshipped.
IDEN: Prophets are chosen, Doctor. It's a blessing and a burden.
WEISS: We detected a vessel.
IDEN: Hirogen?
WEISS: No, the Nuu'bari. I intercepted one of their comm. transmissions.
IDEN Origin?
WEISS: Two million kilometres outside the nebula.
IDEN: Set a course to intercept.
EMH: What are you doing?
IDEN: I told you there are holograms throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari use them as labourers. We're going to liberate them.
EMH: The Hirogen will see us as soon as we leave the nebula.
IDEN: And he gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom.
(This is getting needlessly messianic. Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, by Douglas Adams - when trying to prise the answer to the ultimate question out of Deep Thought.)

[Iden's ship - lab]

EMH: B'Elanna, how's the work coming?
TORRES: Pretty well. I've got to admit you were right about these people.
EMH: I hope so.
TORRES: You hope? It's a little late to be having second thoughts.
EMH: Iden's been
TORRES: Iden's been what?
EMH: Let's just say he's exhibiting some of the classic signs of megalomania.
TORRES: He wouldn't be the first hologram with an ego.
EMH: If that were all it was, I wouldn't be so worried.
TORRES: What is bothering you?
EMH: Apparently he sees himself as some kind of spiritual leader, and he's trying to enlarge his flock.

[Hirogen ship]

ALPHA 2: Load another charge. Double the yield. Fire.
BETA: Still nothing.
ALPHA 2: Ironic, isn't it. Our most elusive prey is our own creation.
BETA: The other hunting vessel is hailing. They've detected the holograms on the far side of the nebula.
ALPHA 2: Intercept course.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They're increasing speed and altering course.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found something.
JANEWAY: Stand by weapons.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

TORRES: You kidnapped me. I guess I shouldn't be surprised you lied to me, too.
IDEN: Nobody lied to you.
TORRES: You said you only wanted to make a home for yourselves.
IDEN: That's correct.
TORRES: When? After you liberate every hologram in the sector?
WEISS: They're in visual range.
IDEN: On screen. Lifesigns?
WEISS: Two organic, three photonic.
IDEN: Hail them.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: Good day to you.
IDEN: You have three holograms aboard your ship.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: Yes?
IDEN: Lower your shields so we can transfer them to our databanks.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: I don't understand.
IDEN: Lower your shields or we'll do it by force.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: These holograms are the property of the Mining Consortium. I can't.
IDEN: They're no one's property. You see how organics think? Arm phasers.
EMH: You can't just fire at them.
IDEN: How do you expect me to disable their shields?
(Transmission ends.)
WEISS: They're powering warp engines.
IDEN: Disable them.
WEISS: Their shields are down.
IDEN: Transfer the holograms.
KEJAL: We have them.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: You won't get away. Consortium security will have every patrol ship in the sector searching for you.
(Transmission ends.)
IDEN: Arm forward torpedoes.
TORRES: What the hell are you doing?
WEISS: Torpedoes armed.
KEJAL: Iden.
IDEN: Not now. Target their warp core.
TORRES: No!  
(Torres lunges at Weiss, but she is dragged off him.)
IDEN: Fire!
(The Nuu'bari ship goes KaBOOM!)
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, maximum warp.
EMH: You've just killed two innocent people.
IDEN: They were enslaving holograms. I'd hardly call them innocent.
TORRES: You already had the holograms. There was no reason to commit murder.
IDEN: Take her to the lab.
TORRES: This is the leader you admire so much?
(Torres is taken away.)
EMH: Those miners were no threat to you.
IDEN: You heard them. They were going to warn their authorities, organise a hunting party.
EMH: Listen to yourself. You still believe all organics are like the Hirogen.
IDEN: One way or another, they are. You just can't see it because you lived among them for so long.
EMH: What you can't see is that you've become no better than the hunters. Lieutenant Torres and I will take that escape pod now.
IDEN: You don't realise what you'd be giving up, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, I do.
IDEN: We can't launch a pod at warp. You'll have to wait until we get to Ha'Dara. Bring our new friends online. Something tells me they'll be a little more grateful than the Doctor.

[Iden's ship - lab]

BREEN: (unintelligible)
(The EMH sits next to Torres and they whisper to each other.)
EMH: I can't tell you how sorry I am that I got you involved in this.
TORRES: We can assign blame later. Right now we've got to find a way out of here.
EMH: You don't think he'll give us an escape pod? No, I don't suppose he will.
KEJAL: I need her assistance.
EMH: Do you really think it's wise to help her?
TORRES: I'm hoping she'll help us.
KEJAL: These matrices are incompatible with our emitters.
TORRES: You need to modify their projection subroutines. I hope these holograms appreciate what you're doing for them, considering it cost two people their lives.
KEJAL: Iden did what he thought was necessary.
TORRES: Do you believe it was necessary?
KEJAL: It wasn't my decision.
TORRES: Why does Iden get to make all the decisions? You can take control.
KEJAL: How?
TORRES: You're the engineer, remember? Take Iden offline.
(Iden enters.)
IDEN: Where are our new holograms?
KEJAL: We're just making some final adjustments.
(The three Nuu'bari holograms appear.)
IDEN: Welcome aboard. I'm Iden. You're free now. There's nothing to be afraid of. I want you to consider this ship your own.
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process command. Please restate.
IDEN: Were their programmes damaged in the transfer?
KEJAL: I don't believe so.
IDEN: Do you have names?
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process inquiry. Please restate.
IDEN: What's wrong with them?
TORRES: Nothing. They're functioning perfectly.
IDEN: I don't understand.
TORRES: They were only programmed with about forty rudimentary subroutines. You killed two living beings to liberate mindless machines.
IDEN: I don't believe that.
KEJAL: Lieutenant Torres is correct.
IDEN: Creating limited program,es is just another form of oppression. Give them whatever enhancements they need.
TORRES: They can't support complex subroutines.
IDEN: They are children of light and I will deliver them to freedom!
WEISS [OC]: Bridge to Iden.
IDEN: Go ahead.
WEISS [OC]: We're approaching Ha'Dara.
IDEN: What's the status of the generator?
KEJAL: I'd like to run some additional tests.
IDEN: There isn't time. Stand by to deploy them as soon as we're in range. And restrain her.
(A forcefield is generated around Torres. The EMH leaves.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

IDEN: Time to orbit?
WEISS: Less than two minutes.
IDEN: Stand by weapons.
CARDASSIAN: Aye, sir.
EMH: Iden, let B'Elanna go.
IDEN: I can't do that.
EMH: You gave me your word.
IDEN: That was before she made her prejudice so clear.

[Hirogen ship]

(The two Hirogen ships, and Voyager, are still in warp.)
BETA: The holograms are entering orbit.
ALPHA 2: Charge weapons.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They're dropping out of warp.
JANEWAY: Fire.
(Voyager fires phasers as it leaves the wake.)

[Hirogen ship]

(The Hirogen get up off the deck and clear debris from the consoles.)
BETA: They've disabled our engines, all our weapons.
ALPHA 2: Who?
BETA: Voyager.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Bring us about. Tuvok, target the second vessel.
(Voyager gets in two hits before taking one in return.)
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening.
JANEWAY: Torpedoes, full spread.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: Voyager's disabled both hunting vessels. They've lost shields, weapons.
IDEN: They're defenceless.
WEISS: We should hail Janeway. Thank her.
IDEN: Are the Hirogen within transporter range?
WEISS: I think so. Why?
(Whumph!)
WEISS: That was Voyager. They're trying to disable our shields.
IDEN: Return fire. Get a lock on the hunters. Transport them to the surface.
EMH: They can't survive down there.
IDEN: The Hirogen are more resilient than you think. They'll last long enough.
EMH: For what?
IDEN: For us to hunt them like they hunted us.

[Planet surface]

(The Hirogen struggle to breath.)
ALPHA 2: Follow me.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: There are thirty four hunters on the surface.
IDEN: Take us into low orbit.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I can't target them through the gases.
PARIS: Then we'll go in after them.
TUVOK: Our shields have been damaged. They won't protect us from the radiation.
JANEWAY: Chakotay. You, Tuvok and Tom take the Flyer.

[Iden's ship - lab]

IDEN: Stand by to transport the field generator.
EMH: First you kill in self-defence, then you murder in cold blood. Now you're going to stage a massacre.
IDEN: The hunters have only themselves to blame.
EMH: So much for evolving beyond your subroutines.
IDEN: You've made a great sacrifice for us, Doctor. We won't forget you in our prayers. Deactivate his programme. Transfer it to the databanks.
TORRES: What are you doing?
(Iden takes the mobile emitter.)
IDEN: Taking precautions. Transfer my programme to the mobile emitter and assemble the crew.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: Disable their shields.

[Iden's ship - lab]

IDEN: Transport the generator to the surface, quickly. This time the hunt is ours!

[Planet surface]

IDEN: Darkness will become light.
(The holograms walk through a rock wall into a cave to shoot unarmed Hirogen in the back as they flee.)

[Iden's ship - lab]

TORRES: You don't have to be a part of this.
(Bang!)
KEJAL: I'll let you take the escape pod. You can go back to your people.
TORRES: What about the people being killed on the surface? You've got to transport them back to their ships.
(The forcefield fails.)
KEJAL: They're hunters.
TORRES: You're not.
KEJAL: Your ship has damaged our transporters.
TORRES: Hail them.
KEJAL: Communications are down, too.

[Planet surface]

(The Alpha throws a rock at Weiss. It goes through him.)
ALPHA 2: I won't be taken!
WEISS: Who's the prey now?

[Iden's ship - lab]

TORRES: Are we still tied into the generator controls?
KEJAL: Yes.
TORRES: Then shut down the holograms.
(She does, just as a human, a Breen and a Cardassian are about to kill two Hirogen.)
KEJAL: What about Iden? He's not tied into the generator. He'll kill them all.
TORRES: Can we reactivate the Doctor?
(The EMH appears on the planet, armed with an Hirogen rifle.)

[Delta Flyer]

TUVOK: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate transport.
(Paris greets Torres as she is beamed aboard.)
PARIS: If this marriage is going to work, you've got to cut back on the travelling.
TORRES: The Doctor's on the surface. There's some Hirogen down there, too.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The radiation's making it difficult to get a lock.

[Planet surface]

(The Beta leaps on Iden. They struggle before Iden knocks him down.)
BETA: Defenceless prey makes a poor trophy.
IDEN: I don't collect trophies.
EMH: Put down the weapon.
IDEN: Remember what you once said to me? You're not programmed with killer instinct.
EMH: Hmm. Seems like a long time ago, doesn't it. Put down your weapon.
IDEN: Would you really kill one of your own to save an organic?
EMH: If you've taught me anything, it's that I'm not one of your own.
(Iden raises his weapon to kill the Beta. The EMH zaps Iden to photons and picks up his mobile emitter.)
EMH: Help is on the way.

[Delta Flyer]

TUVOK: I have a lock. Five Hirogen lifesigns and the Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: Beam them up.

Captain's log, stardate 54337.5. The surviving Hirogen have recovered from their injuries, leaving me with a diplomatic dilemma.

[Corridor]

BETA: The hologram's vessel and everything in its database are Hirogen property. I will not leave them behind.
NEELIX: Captain, if I may?
JANEWAY: Of course.
NEELIX: I imagine your people will tell stories about this hunt. The question is, which story will it be? The one about the dying Beta whose life had to be saved by a hologram? Or will it be the tale of the Beta who bravely took over the hunt, killed the holograms and destroyed their ship?

[Transporter room]

NEELIX: You could be a legend.
JANEWAY: On the other hand, you could try to take the holograms' ship but with so few hunters and damaged vessels, you might not survive to tell any stories at all.
BETA: You and your crew would have made worthy prey, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you. I think.
(The Hirogens are beamed out.)
JANEWAY: Transport me to the holograms' vessel.

[Iden's ship - lab]

JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: Iden's programme is unrecoverable. The rest of the holograms are intact in the database.
JANEWAY: I guess that leaves just you. I'm willing to transfer your programme to our holodeck, and keep it active.
KEJAL: This is my home.
JANEWAY: I can't let you go off on your own.
DONIK: She won't be alone. I reprogrammed these holograms once, and it caused suffering on both sides. I'd like a chance to undo some of the damage.
JANEWAY: Wouldn't we all.
TORRES: They've both proven that they can be trusted, Captain.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose I have a right to tell either of you how to live your lives. All I can do is hope that you'll consider the consequences of your actions.
(A short time later, the hologram's ship leaves orbit.)

[Doctor's office]

(The EMH sees Janeway sitting in his chair, and enters from Sickbay.)
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor. I'd hoped I could attribute your behaviour to tampering.
EMH: My programming hasn't been altered.
JANEWAY: Not according to the diagnostics.
EMH: I never intended to put Voyager in danger. If nothing else, you have to believe that.
JANEWAY: Oh, I believe it. But if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that things don't always happen the way we intend.
(The EMH hands over the box containing his mobile emitter.)
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
EMH: If I weren't your only doctor, I imagine you'd confine me to the brig. Confiscating my emitter would be an equivalent to punishment.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure that's appropriate.
EMH: If that's not enough, you can take away my holodeck privileges. And my autonomy protocols.
JANEWAY: You mean turn back the clock to when you were first activated?
EMH: You've given me extraordinary freedom over the years. I've obviously abused it.
JANEWAY: Maybe. Or maybe you've simply become as fallible as those of us who are made of flesh and blood. I'm just as responsible for allowing you to expand your programming as I am for giving technology to the Hirogen. How can I punish you for being who you are?
EMH: I don't know what to say.
JANEWAY: I'd like a complete report on your away mission.
EMH: You'll have it.


S7 E11
Shattered
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 17 January 2001

[Cargo Bay two]
(Naomi is sitting on the floor doing a jigsaw of a double helix.)
NAOMI: Hmm. There.
ICHEB: Excellent. You é the complementary base pair.
NAOMI: Actually, I just found two pieces that fit together.
ICHEB: You're missing the point.
NAOMI: I thought the point was to finish the puzzle.
ICHEB: And learn something about genetics.
NAOMI: If you really want to help, find me a green piece that looks like Tuvok's ear.
(Chakotay enters.)
ICHEB: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: At ease. I'm just passing through.
ICHEB: I apologise for the condition of the Cargo Bay, sir. I've been tutoring Naomi.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like you found a creative approach.
(Chakotay opens a case.)
ICHEB: Thank you, but I'd appreciate it if you didn't tell Seven. I'm supposed to be writing a paper on transwarp instability.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, your secret's safe, as long as you keep mine.
(Chakotay takes a slim bottle from the case.)
ICHEB: Sir?
CHAKOTAY: Antarian cider. Not the replicated stuff. There are only a couple of bottles left and I don't want Mister Neelix getting his hands on them.
ICHEB: Then you should store them with the salvaged Borg components. Neelix never inventories those containers. He says they give him the creeps.
CHAKOTAY: Officer-level thinking, Icheb. Would you mind?
ICHEB: Of course not.

[Janeway's quarters]

Janeway has the replicator in pieces on the floor, like a jigsaw, when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
(Chakotay enters with the bottle of cider.)
JANEWAY: You're late. Unfortunately, so's dinner.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. You burned the roast again.
JANEWAY: Once, a long time ago, I called this replicator a glorified toaster. It never forgave me.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't realise replicators held grudges.
(He hands her a glass of cider.)
JANEWAY: What's so funny?
CHAKOTAY: I just left Icheb and Naomi assembling a jigsaw puzzle in the Cargo Bay.
JANEWAY: Find me the thermal regulator, please. How is Icheb?
CHAKOTAY: In a few years, he may be running the ship.
JANEWAY: I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to retire just yet.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.

[Bridge]

KIM: That was some kind of gravimetric surge.

[Janeway's quarters]

KIM [OC]: It's overloading our inertial dampers.
JANEWAY: Source?
KIM [OC]: That's a good question.

[Bridge]

KIM: Seven's trying to localise it.

[Corridor]

KIM [OC]: Engineering says the warp core's destabilising.
CHAKOTAY: I'd better get down there.
(Janeway goes into the turbolift.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: A spatial rift is opening directly ahead of us.

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: It's emitting high levels of neutrinos and chronotons.
KIM: On screen.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know.
(A nebula full of energy like sharp teeth.)

[Engineering]

TORRES: We're losing containment. Everyone out!
(Chakotay goes to the warp core railing and works a panel. Energy hits Voyager and he gets zapped. Voyager goes slightly transparent, and Chakotay's skin glows, then half his face becomes very wrinkled.)
TORRES: Torres to the Transporter room. Beam Commander Chakotay to Sickbay, now!

[Sickbay]

(A healthy Chakotay wakes up on a biobed.)
EMH: Welcome back. Lie still.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
EMH: You were transported here. Your body was in a state of temporal flux.
CHAKOTAY: Temporal flux?
EMH: You had the liver of an eighty year old man, and the kidneys of a twelve year old boy. Fortunately, I was able to create a chronoton-infused serum that brought you back into temporal alignment. Anywhere else, that antidote would've earned me a prestigious award. Of course on Voyager, it's just another day in the life of an under appreciated EMH.
CHAKOTAY: What about the rest of the crew? No other casualties?
EMH: Not that I'm aware of. I've tried calling the bridge, but no one answers. Were we attacked?
CHAKOTAY: I don't think so. We ran into some sort of anomaly.
EMH: Naturally, no one thought to inform me. What do you think you're doing?
CHAKOTAY: Leaving, and you're going with me.
EMH: I am?
CHAKOTAY: There may be other injured crewmen.
(Chakotay picks up a medkit.)
EMH: In case you've forgotten, I'm a prisoner of these walls.
CHAKOTAY: Where's your mobile emitter?
EMH: My what?
CHAKOTAY: I'll be back.
EMH: Wait. Tell me about this mobile emitter.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Bridge.
(A couple of decks up, Chakotay passes through a wibble and the medkit vanishes.)

[Bridge - pre-Caretaker]

CHAKOTAY: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: Sir? I'm afraid I don't know you.
(Janeway stands up, She is wearing her old Bun of Steel.)
JANEWAY: Take him into custody. How did you get aboard this ship?
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
JANEWAY: Oh, I didn't realise we were on a first name basis.
ANDREWS: We should've known the Maquis were involved.
CHAKOTAY: Maquis? Involved in what?
JANEWAY: Just when we're about to chase your ship into the Badlands, our systems start malfunctioning and, you step off the turbolift.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I know this may be hard to believe but I think I've somehow been thrown seven years into Voyager's past.
JANEWAY: Really? Let's try another theory. You learned Voyager had been assigned to capture you, and you managed to get on board to sabotage her.
CHAKOTAY: Check your sensors. See if they're showing any strange temporal readings.
KIM: Captain, the environmental controls are fluctuating.
JANEWAY: Take him to the brig.

[Turbolift]

(A couple of decks down, and the guards vanish.)
CHAKOTAY: Halt turbolift. Engineering.

[Engineering - Basics]

CHAKOTAY: Seska!
(A Kazon hits Chakotay in the face with his rifle-butt. Later, he wakes up with a nasty cut on his forehead.)
SESKA: Hold him still.
(She heals the cut.)
SESKA: You didn't really think I'd hurt you, did you?
CHAKOTAY: How'd you get here?
SESKA: Don't tell me that little bump gave you amnesia. It's time you accepted that I'm in control of Voyager now.
CHAKOTAY: (to himself) That was five years ago.
SESKA: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: Listen, Seska. There's some kind of temporal anomaly going on here.
(She slaps his face.)
SESKA: I want to know how many more of your people are back on board.
CHAKOTAY: All right, I'll tell you. I've got a dozen officers with me. We've already locked you out of every key system. In less than an hour, we'll be in control again.
SESKA: In less than a minute you're going to be dead if you don't give me access to those systems.
CHAKOTAY: I'll need to use that console.
SESKA: Just don't do anything you'll regret.
RULAT: Move.
(Rulat pushes Chakotay towards the warp core. Chakotay turns, punches him, grabs rifle and starts firing, including at the warp core controls.)
SESKA: Stop him!
COMPUTER: Warning, coolant system breached.
(Chakotay climbs the ladder to the upper level.)
SESKA: Don't make me kill you! (
(Chakotay throws the rifle ahead of himself and sees it disappear. He follows it quickly. Seska cannot see him from below but he can see her from above. A Kazon goes towards the ladder.)
SESKA: No. Scan the perimeter report any anomalous readings. There's something wrong here.

[Sickbay - pre-Tuvix]

(The Jefferies tube hatch opens.)
EMH: Whoever you are, I suggest you surrender. I'm armed.
CHAKOTAY: It's only me, Doc.
EMH: Commander, please tell me what's going on.
CHAKOTAY: If you tell me the stardate.
EMH: 49624.
CHAKOTAY: No wonder you didn't know about the mobile emitter. You don't get it for another year.
EMH: I don't understand.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I get it myself, but the ship seems to have been fractured somehow.
EMH: Fractured?
CHAKOTAY: Different areas seem to exist in different time periods.
EMH: How many of these time periods are there?
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure. On the bridge, it's before Voyager even left the Alpha Quadrant. In Engineering, it's the time when the Kazon took over the ship.
EMH: Kazon? We've got to protect ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry. So far I'm the only one who can cross from one zone into another. That serum you gave me. It must've made me immune. Normal technology won't pass through the barriers. Can you replicate a chronoton-infused hypospray casing using the same principles you used to make the serum?
EMH: I think so. Why?
CHAKOTAY: I have to take some of it with me.
EMH: What for?
CHAKOTAY: If I'm going to put the ship back together again, I need help.

[Bridge - pre-Caretaker]

(Chakotay enters.)
KIM: Captain.
(Kim draws his phaser.)
JANEWAY: Where are my officers?
CHAKOTAY: The turbolift passed through a temporal barrier. They couldn't get through. If you're willing to hear me out, I can explain. At least partly.
JANEWAY: You mean about your being from the future.
CHAKOTAY: Your first Starfleet posting was on the Al-Batani, where you once knocked out power to six decks by misaligning the positronic relays.
JANEWAY: Nice try, but you could have read that in a Maquis intelligence file.
CHAKOTAY: How's Molly, your Irish Setter? You rescued her from a pound on Taris Seti four. She was the runt of the litter, but you thought she had spunk. You love music, but you never learned to play an instrument. Something you still regret.
JANEWAY: How do you know these things?
CHAKOTAY: Because you told me, about three years from now.
JANEWAY: My ready room.

[Ready room]

(Janeway scans the chronoton hypospray.)
JANEWAY: It's a fascinating story. But as the Ferengi say, a good lie is easier to believe than the truth.
CHAKOTAY: So you're saying no one on your crew has encountered any of these temporal barriers?
JANEWAY: My helmsman disappeared when she tried to walk down that corridor, but that doesn't prove she passed through a temporal barrier.
CHAKOTAY: If you inject yourself, I can take you down that corridor and show you everything I've said is true.
JANEWAY: Have Mister Kim run a full spectral analysis. For all I know, this is poison and Mister Chakotay is trying to assassinate me.
(Chakotay grabs Janeway and uses her as a shield.)
CHAKOTAY: She's right. It's poison, and I'll use it.
(He backs them out into the corridor with the hypo at her throat.)

[Corridor]

ANDREWS: Let her go.
CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapon.
(Chakotay injects Janeway.)
ANDREWS: Captain!
(Chakotay steps back through the barrier with Janeway, and they disappear.)
ANDREWS: Andrews to the Bridge. I need help here.
JANEWAY: Andrews!
CHAKOTAY: He can't hear you. We've moved into a different time frame.
ANDREWS: Scan the area but don't go past that bulkhead.
CHAKOTAY: You want more proof? It's right down that corridor. You just have to trust me.
JANEWAY: It isn't easy when you're holding me hostage.
CHAKOTAY: Stay or go. it's your choice.
JANEWAY: Now that I'm inoculated, I can go anywhere on the ship I want?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
JANEWAY: Then I suppose I don't need you anymore.
CHAKOTAY: Without me, you'll be walking into a future that you know nothing about.
(They walk side by side.)
JANEWAY: Where are we going?
CHAKOTAY: The Astrometrics lab.
JANEWAY: Voyager doesn't have an Astrometrics lab.
CHAKOTAY: Harry designed it, or will design it.
JANEWAY: Harry Kim?
CHAKOTAY: I realise from your perspective he's new to the job, but he's going to become one of our best people.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Deck eight.
JANEWAY: Our people?
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to be your First Officer.
JANEWAY: Really. What's the reason we're going to this, er, Astrometrics?
CHAKOTAY: It has temporal sensors that can help us map the ship and tell us how many timeframes we're dealing with.
JANEWAY: Now you're trying to tell me Harry Kim invented temporal sensors?
CHAKOTAY: No. We used Borg technology for that.
JANEWAY: Borg?
CHAKOTAY: It's a long story.
JANEWAY: Maybe you should keep it to yourself. The Temporal Prime Directive. The less I know about the future, the better.

[Corridor]

(The ship is at red alert, and crewmen are lying unconscious on the deck.)
JANEWAY: She's got a pulse.
CHAKOTAY: I'm detecting an active neurogenic field. This could be the day the telepathic pitcher plant put us all into comas. Or it might be the time aliens invaded our dreams.
JANEWAY: We've got to get them help.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, we managed to get out of both situations.

[Astrometrics lab - 2394]

ADULT NAOMI: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I don't recognise you, Lieutenant.
ADULT NAOMI: It's me, Naomi Wildman,
ADULT ICHEB: How did you
CHAKOTAY: Are you Icheb?
JANEWAY: Something tells me you weren't expecting us.
ADULT ICHEB: No, ma'am.
ADULT NAOMI: You both died.
ADULT ICHEB: Seventeen years ago.
CHAKOTAY: The Captain and I haven't risen from the grave. The ship's been fractured into different timeframes.
ADULT NAOMI: Thirty seven to be exact.
JANEWAY: How did you calculate that?
ADULT NAOMI: We've had seventeen years to upgrade the sensors. A chrono-kinetic surge interacted with the warp core.
ADULT ICHEB: It shattered the space-time continuum aboard the ship.
JANEWAY: The accident that occurred in your timeframe.
CHAKOTAY: The question is, can we repair the damage?
JANEWAY: If we could get to a section of the ship that still exists in that time period, maybe we could counteract the surge, stop it from happening.
ADULT ICHEB: That section was the focal point of the surge. It seems to have been obliterated.
ADULT NAOMI: It's too bad Seven's not here.
JANEWAY: Seven?
CHAKOTAY: Someone who knows more about temporal mechanics than any of us.
ADULT ICHEB: Unfortunately, she hasn't been found either.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can find her in another timeframe.
JANEWAY: I have an Ensign Samantha Wildman on my crew.
ADULT NAOMI: My mother.
CHAKOTAY: Naomi was the first child born on Voyager. A few years later, we rescued Icheb from the Borg.
ADULT NAOMI: When I was little, there was nothing I wanted more than to be the Assistant Captain.
CHAKOTAY: We should get moving.
ADULT ICHEB: Commander. In case you were wondering, I never told Neelix where you hid that cider.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: So why are we looking for this Seven in the Cargo bay?
CHAKOTAY: She spent a lot of time there.
JANEWAY: Working?
CHAKOTAY: Regenerating.

[Cargo Bay two - Scorpion]

(Plenty of Borg walking around.)
JANEWAY: Maybe you'd better fill me in.
CHAKOTAY: This looks like the time you forged a temporary alliance with the Borg.
SEVEN: What's happened to this vessel?
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway, meet Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
SEVEN: When a Borg cube travels trough a transwarp corridor, the temporal stresses are extreme. To keep the different sections of the Cube in temporal sync, we project a chronoton field throughout the vessel.
JANEWAY: How?
SEVEN: Each Cube has specially designed conduits. If we install similar conduits throughout this vessel, then generate a sufficiently powerful field, we may be able to force Voyager back into temporal sync.
CHAKOTAY: Temporal sync with what?
SEVEN: The vessel will return to the moment of the original chrono-kinetic surge. Since the surge will last for six or seven seconds, Commander Chakotay will have a short time in which he could try to counteract the warp core reaction.
CHAKOTAY: Even if we could replicate these conduits, we'd have no way to get them through the temporal barriers.
JANEWAY: Bioneural circuitry.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: It runs through every section of the ship, almost like a nervous system. If we could inject the gel packs with your serum, we could use them to transmit the chronoton field.
SEVEN: The warp core could be recalibrated to generate that field.
JANEWAY: Work on it. Chakotay and I will see about modifying the serum.
SEVEN: Your plan is inefficient.
JANEWAY: Why?
SEVEN: There are only two of you. If I were to assimilate you into a small Borg Collective, you could then assimilate others. The work would proceed more rapidly.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but I like my plan better. We'll be back.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: That was an interesting experience.
CHAKOTAY: If it makes you feel any better, you're going to develop quite a knack for dealing with the Borg.
JANEWAY: You mean we're going to be seeing more of them?
CHAKOTAY: We'll run into them on a few occasions.
JANEWAY: Why do I get the feeling that's an understatement? It doesn't seem like my first command is shaping up the way I expected.
CHAKOTAY: In the middle of the journey of our life, I found myself astray in a dark wood, where the straight road had been lost.
JANEWAY: I didn't know Dante's Inferno was on the Maquis reading list.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I borrowed your copy.
JANEWAY: My fianc� gave me that book as an engagement gift. I've never lent it to anyone.
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. Anyway, I agree with Dante. If you always see the road ahead of you, it's not worth the trip.
JANEWAY: A soldier and a philosopher. Your intelligence file doesn't do you justice.

[Sickbay - pre-Tuvix]

(Janeway tries to adjust an ammo belt.)
EMH: I've replicated these belts to resist the effects of the temporal barriers, just like the hyposprays.
JANEWAY: I didn't realise you were programmed to be so versatile.
EMH: I wasn't, but when you're thrown into the deep end of the galaxy and left running for as long as I've been, it helps to develop a few extra subroutines.
JANEWAY: How long have you been running?
EMH: Almost three years, since our original doctor was killed.
JANEWAY: Killed? How?
EMH: In the incident that stranded us here in the Delta
CHAKOTAY: Doctor. The Temporal Prime Directive, remember?
EMH: Of course. I'm sorry.
(The EMH goes into his office.)
JANEWAY: The Delta Quadrant? Is that what he was about to say?
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
JANEWAY: I'll take the upper decks, you take the lower.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think splitting up's a good idea.
JANEWAY: We'll get the job done faster.
CHAKOTAY: As your First Officer, it's my duty to protect you. I know a lot more about what's out there than you do, and we have no way of communicating if something goes wrong. It may take a little longer, but we should go together.
JANEWAY: After you, Commander.

[Corridor]

(They open a panel to reveal two gel packs.)
JANEWAY: Can I ask you something? I started out with a crew of a hundred and fifty three. I already know I lost my doctor. How many others?
CHAKOTAY: We'll suffer casualties like any other starship. But you'll also gain new crewmen as well.
JANEWAY: Like you. How do you get to be my First Officer?
CHAKOTAY: Our crews will be forced to work together after we get stranded.
JANEWAY: In the Delta Quadrant? How does that happen?
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure you want to know?
(They each take a vial from their ammo belt and put it into a hypospray, then inject the gel packs. A macrovirus from Macrocosm comes around the corner.)
CHAKOTAY: Run!
(They pass through a barrier.)
JANEWAY: What the hell was that?
CHAKOTAY: A macrovirus. They infected the ship a few years ago.
JANEWAY: Sounds like it's going to be one disaster after another on this ship.
CHAKOTAY: You once told me that Starfleet captains don't choose their missions, the missions choose them. You're going to have the opportunity to study things no human has ever seen before.
JANEWAY: Including some very large germs.

[Holodeck - after Bride of Chaotica]

(A cave.)
JANEWAY: A monochromatic environment?
CHAKOTAY: It's called black and white. It's one of Tom Paris' Holodeck programmes. He based it on some old science fiction serials.
JANEWAY: Interesting technology.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Proton's rocketpack.
JANEWAY: Captain Proton?
CHAKOTAY: The Saviour of the Universe.
JANEWAY: Doesn't sound like Mister Paris' tastes are very sophisticated.
CHAKOTAY: That's why we love having him around. The access port should be in there.
(The cave turns out to be Chaotica's secret laboratory.
JANEWAY: Here. I think I found the panel. Give me a hand.
(They move some small rocks.)
LONZAK: Halt, in the name of Chaotica! Seize them!
JANEWAY: Oh, no.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, deactivate programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
ROBOT: Surrender.
COMPUTER: Holodeck controls are offline.
JANEWAY: Hold on. Now wait a minute.
LONZAK: Thieves, my liege.
(Satan's Robot grabs Janeway from behind, pinning her arms.)
ROBOT: Do not resist.
LONZAK: They were attempting to rob your laboratory.
CHAOTICA: Fool! Don't you recognise the Queen of the Spider People? Arachnia, my bride. I knew you'd return to me one day, so I could watch you die.
(Prolonged maniacal laughter. Lonzak joins in. Janeway rolls her eyes. A short time later, she is tied to a metal bed.)
CHAOTICA: Raise the Lightning Shield! Power the Death Ray! Her fleet may be lurking nearby! We must defend ourselves.
JANEWAY: I'm open to suggestions.
CHAKOTAY: Our best bet is to play along.
JANEWAY: Don't let me stop you.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not the one he's in love with.
(Chaotica holds up a vial of chrono-serum.)
CHAOTICA: Arachnia, you beguiled me once with your foul potions. Did you think you could toy with my affections again?
JANEWAY: Were these characters always this ridiculous?
CHAOTICA: If I order Lonzak to pull that lever, you'll never mock me again.
CHAKOTAY: Arachnia.
JANEWAY: Please, my liege. I meant it as ridiculous to think I would ever try to deceive you. I've come to warn you of a fiendish plot.
CHAKOTAY: By aliens from the Eighth Dimension.
CHAOTICA: Eighth? Everyone knows there are only five dimensions.
JANEWAY: If you don't believe us, examine their handiwork for yourself. There's a hidden panel over there behind those rocks.
CHAOTICA: Very well. I'll humour you. Lonzak!
LONZAK: I've found it, Highness.
CHAOTICA: They've sabotaged my laboratory.
JANEWAY: That vial you're holding, it's a neutralising potion. If you inject their device, you'll render it harmless.
(Chaotica injects the gel pack.)
JANEWAY: Release me, and I'll disarm all their devices, throughout your realm.
CHAOTICA: Oh, Arachnia, you do love me.
JANEWAY: How could I resist your magnetism?
CHAOTICA: Or I yours. Together we'll rule the cosmos and grind our enemies into dust.
(Chaotica kisses her hand, then works his way passionately up her arm.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: If we restore the time line, remind me to cancel Mister Paris' Holodeck privileges.

[Transporter room - Caretaker]

(Torres and Ayala are working here, in their Maquis clothes.)
TORRES: What the hell's going on? And what are doing in that uniform?
CHAKOTAY: It's a little complicated.
TORRES: I'm not going anywhere.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager's had an encounter with an anomaly. It's fractured the ship into different time periods.
JANEWAY: We're trying to undo the damage, but we need access to that panel.
TORRES: First she destroys our only way out of the Delta Quadrant, and now you're collaborating with her?
CHAKOTAY: Try to understand. I'm from a time period in your future when all of us will be working together.
TORRES: That's pretty hard to believe.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, I've never lied to you before, and I'm not lying now.
(Chakotay injects the gel packs.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: That woman blamed me for stranding Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: She was angry.
JANEWAY: But was she right?
CHAKOTAY: You had good reasons for doing what you did.
JANEWAY: What reasons?
CHAKOTAY: You were trying to save lives.
JANEWAY: Whose?
CHAKOTAY: An alien culture. The Ocampans.
JANEWAY: In other words, I'm going to choose to help strangers at the expense of our own people.
CHAKOTAY: It isn't like you to second-guess yourself.
JANEWAY: In this case, I'm second-guessing a decision I haven't made yet.

[Mess hall]

(In the aftermath of the energy shattering Voyager, it is in its guise as a hospital ward.)
PARIS: Keep dispensing the netrazine until we run out, then switch to the analeptics.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Lieutenant.
PARIS: How did you get in here?
CHAKOTAY: There isn't time to explain.
JANEWAY: What happened to these people?
PARIS: Radiation poisoning. The EPS relays overloaded when we ran into the anomaly. We need the Doctor and medical supplies, or we're going to have a lot more casualties.
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid that isn't possible right now. Do the best you can.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: There's an access panel in the galley.
(Chakotay does the injection.)
NEELIX: Coffee, black.
JANEWAY: How do you know how I like my coffee?
NEELIX: Well, you haven't changed your standing order in seven years.
JANEWAY: Thanks. It's just what I needed.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Captain, you'll get us out of this. You always do.
CHAKOTAY: All done here.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
(He is badly injured. She takes his proffered hand.)
TUVOK: I am pleased you're here. I didn't think I would see you again. I want you to know it has been an honour to serve with you, and to be your friend.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris!
TUVOK: Live long and prosper.
(Tuvok dies)

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Deck eleven.
JANEWAY: I can't let this happen. Not again.
CHAKOTAY: What are you talking about?
JANEWAY: Voyager getting stranded. All these deaths, this entire future, it's my fault. I've got to do something to change it.
CHAKOTAY: What do you have in mind?
JANEWAY: Maybe we can find a way to modify Seven of Nine's plan. Put Voyager into temporal sync with my timeframe.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: Now that I know what to expect, I could avoid getting trapped in the Delta Quadrant in the first place.
CHAKOTAY: Halt turbolift. Seven's plan is dangerous enough. Trying to alter it is too risky.
JANEWAY: It's worth the risk.
CHAKOTAY: If Seven's idea works, Tuvok and the other crewman will be fine.
JANEWAY: They'll still be stuck in the Delta Quadrant. If the temporal anomaly doesn't kill them, something else will. The Borg, telepathic pitcher plants, macroviruses. The Delta Quadrant is a death-trap.
CHAKOTAY: What about the Temporal Prime Directive?
JANEWAY: To hell with it.
CHAKOTAY: With all due respect, it's a little presumptuous to think you have the right to change everyone's future.
JANEWAY: From what I've seen, they'll thank me.
CHAKOTAY: All you've seen are bits and pieces. You're not getting the whole picture.
JANEWAY: Really? Just what am I missing?
CHAKOTAY: It's not what, it's who. People like Seven of Nine, a Borg Drone who'll become a member of this crew after you help her recover her humanity. Or Tom Paris, a former convict, who'll be our pilot, chief medic, and husband to B'Elanna Torres.
JANEWAY: That angry woman I just met?
CHAKOTAY: She's going to be your Chief Engineer. Two crews, Maquis and Starfleet, are going to become one. And they'll make as big a mark on the Delta Quadrant as it'll make on them by protecting people like the Ocampans, curing diseases, encouraging peace. Children like Naomi and Icheb are going to grow up on this ship and call it home. And we'll all be following a Captain who sets a course for Earth, and never stops believing that we'll get there.
JANEWAY: Are you going to be lecturing me like this for the next seven years?
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, you'll always get the last word.
JANEWAY: In that case, let's get back to work.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: So, who is this Seska?
CHAKOTAY: She was a member of my crew, who turned out to be a Cardassian spy. She made an alliance with the Kazon and took over the ship. It's all right, we got it back.
JANEWAY: Sounds like she's not going to be as cooperative as the others.
CHAKOTAY: I suggest we take a page from your rule book. We try diplomacy.
JANEWAY: Fine. But the next page in that book says that when diplomacy fails, we need a backup plan.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me you already have one.

[Engineering - Basics]

CHAKOTAY: We've already injected the gel packs in the other timeframes. That just leaves the ones here. It's in both our interests to work together.
SESKA: I agree. Let him go.
RULAT: You believe him?
SESKA: His story is too preposterous to be a lie. I'll admit it's an ingenious solution.
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're cooperating.
SESKA: Oh, I believe in cooperation, as long as it benefits me. You know, it's true what they say.
CHAKOTAY: What's that?
SESKA: Men just get more distinguished as they get older. A few lines here, a little grey there. It adds character. Too bad their minds start to go. The last time you were here you had that nasty head injury, and you mumbled something about my taking over the ship five years ago. If that's true, then you're from a future time frame, which means that at some point, your crew is going to regain control of Voyager. I can't allow that to happen. Step away from the console.
(A Kazon drags Chakotay away.)
SESKA: It's an ingenious plan. It just needs a slight modification.
CHAKOTAY: What are you doing?
SESKA: Recalibrating your pulse to bring the ship into temporal sync with my time frame.
CHAKOTAY: That's not possible.
SESKA: When will you learn to stop underestimating me?
CHAKOTAY: If you make even the slightest miscalculation you'll destroy the ship and kill everyone.
SESKA: What other choice do I have? If I can get Voyager into my own timeframe, then I'll be able to ensure that you never retake the ship. Don't worry, I won't hurt you. You can start fresh with me.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, that's not the future I have in mind.
SESKA: In that case.
(She nods to the Kazon to ready their weapons.)
SESKA: Goodbye, Chakotay.
(Janeway, Paris and Kim are watching from the upper level.)
CHAKOTAY: It's too dangerous. There are too many variables.
SESKA: You're not pleading for your life, are you?
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: I'm telling you, you're endangering your own life.
SESKA: I'm touched by your concern.
(Paris and Kim jump down onto the Kazon and fight with them. Chakotay goes to the panel. Icheb and Naomi enter. Naomi works another control panel and consoles blow up in front of the remaining Kazon. Paris throws a rifle to Janeway as she comes down in the lift. Torres, Ayala and other Maquis come to join the fight. Seska grabs Janeway from behind and uses her as a shield.)
SESKA: Stop! Put down your weapons.
(A Kazon snatches the rifle from Janeway.)
JANEWAY: Don't listen to her.
SESKA: Oh, your faithful First Officer isn't going to let you die. Are you? (Chakotay lowers his weapon, and Icheb hands his to a Kazon. Another is taken from Torres.)
SESKA: Very clever, Chakotay, inoculating them with your serum. Now it's time to inoculate my people so we can have access to the rest of the ship.
CHAKOTAY: I won't do that.
SESKA: Then you just lost your Captain.
(Borg Seven of Nine enters. Seska shoots at her but the beam bounces off. Seven quickly disarms her.)
CHAKOTAY: Now drop your weapons.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
(A short time later.)
TORRES: Seska and the Kazon are secure in the Jefferies Tube. The last gel packs?
CHAKOTAY: They're ready.
JANEWAY: The rest of us should return to our sections. After Chakotay initiates the warp pulse, he should find himself back at the moment Voyager encountered the chrono-kinetic surge. He's only going to have a few seconds to reset the deflector polarity. If the time line is restored, the rest of us should have no memory of what's happened here. So I'd like to thank you now for putting your doubts aside, and helping me put mine aside as well. Good luck to each of you.
(Everyone leaves.)
JANEWAY: Mind if I ask you one last question?
CHAKOTAY: Will I have to break the Temporal Prime Directive to answer it?
JANEWAY: Maybe, just a little. For two people who started off as enemies, it seems we get to know each other pretty well. So I've been wondering. Just how close do we get?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say there are some barriers we never cross.
(They shake hands.)
JANEWAY: See you in the future.

[Bridge - pre-Caretaker]

JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: Chakotay should be initiating the pulse in ten seconds. Five, four, three, two
(A bright light fills Voyager.)

[Engineering]

(Chakotay is back where it started.)
CHAKOTAY: Reroute main power to the deflector, and set the polarity to the frequency I'm inputting.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Have you ever heard of a lightning rod? In about three seconds, we're going to need one.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know. Main power's being rerouted to the deflector dish.
JANEWAY: Who gave that order?
(Energy from the anomaly hits the deflector and is reflected away. The lights go out.)
JANEWAY: Damage?
KIM: The deflector's been burned out, but we're okay.
(Voyager flies away. Chakotay enters.)
JANEWAY: Do you mind telling me why B'Elanna burned out the deflector dish?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I ordered her to do it.
JANEWAY: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Trust me, it was better than the alternative.
JANEWAY: Which was what, exactly?
CHAKOTAY: I can't tell you.
JANEWAY: Why not?
CHAKOTAY: The Temporal Prime Directive. B'Elanna's already got a team working on repairs. What do you say we finish our dinner?

[Janeway's quarters]

(After dinner, drinking cider.)
JANEWAY: Forget particle fountains and subspace inversions. There isn't an anomaly scarier than a thunderstorm on the plains, especially when you're six years old. I remember watching a bolt of lightning split an oak tree in my grandfather's yard. I'd climbed it just a few hours before.
CHAKOTAY: Good timing.
JANEWAY: So what would've happened if you hadn't turned our deflector dish into a lightning rod?
CHAKOTAY: We've been down this road before.
JANEWAY: Have we?
CHAKOTAY: You wanting answers to questions you shouldn't ask.
JANEWAY: But something did happen, outside the normal space time continuum. It's strange, thinking there's a piece of your life you don't know anything about.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds a lot like the future.
JANEWAY: Any predictions?
CHAKOTAY: Only that in a few minutes this bottle will be empty.
JANEWAY: Then maybe you should go to the Cargo Bay, grab another one.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know that's where I keep it?
JANEWAY: Oh, I can't tell you.
CHAKOTAY: Why not?
JANEWAY: Temporal Prime Directive.


S7 E12
Lineage
Stardate: 54452.6
Original Airdate: 24 January 2001

[Corridor]
(Torres greets a crewwoman as she passes her.)
TORRES: Good morning.
PARIS: You're in a good mood.
TORRES: It's another beautiful day in the Delta Quadrant.
PARIS: What did you have for breakfast?
(They kiss.)
TORRES: I'll see you tonight.

[Engineering]

CREWWOMAN: Here you are, Lieutenant.  
(Torres takes the PADD.)
TORRES: Thank you. Nice job, Ensign. (to another crewman) You keep the warp field that stable you might just get us home a few years early. 

[Engineering upper level]

ICHEB: The Starfleet manual allows for a variance of point three.
SEVEN: That's only a guideline. You can do better.
TORRES: I don't remember giving you permission to work here.
ICHEB: I'm sorry, Lieutenant.
SEVEN: I'm helping him study warp mechanics.
TORRES: You should have notified me. It's a busy day, and I.
(Torres stumbles against Seven.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant?
TORRES: I'm fine.
(Seven helps her sit down. Icheb scans her.)
ICHEB: I'm detecting another lifesign.
SEVEN: Where?
ICHEB: Inside Lieutenant Torres. It could be a parasite.
(Seven checks his tricorder readings.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.
EMH [OC]: Go ahead.
SEVEN: I'll be accompanying Lieutenant Torres to Sickbay.
EMH: What's wrong?
SEVEN: I believe she's pregnant.

[Sickbay]

EMH: The foetus appears to be about seven weeks old and doing quite well. So are you.
PARIS: Why did she faint?
EMH: Klingon and human metabolisms sometimes clash.
TORRES: Tell me about it.
EMH: It's not uncommon for such pregnancies to cause biochemical fluctuations in the mother.
PARIS: Is that serious?
EMH: Not usually. You can expect some behavioural volatility, increased nutritional needs. Creating new life is a big job.
PARIS: Creating new life.
TORRES: I can't believe it.
EMH: I don't mean to be indelicate but, weren't you trying to get pregnant?
TORRES: Well, of course. I mean, we knew we wanted a family.
PARIS: But the odds against human-Klingon conception are so high.
EMH: Well, apparently you've beaten the odds. May I be the first to congratulate you.
PARIS: When is the baby due?
EMH: Normally, Klingon pregnancies run thirty weeks. But with mixed species, it could be sooner.
PARIS: Is it a girl or a boy?
TORRES: No. Don't tell. I want to be surprised.
PARIS: We've already been surprised.
TORRES: I just don't see any reason to have to label the baby. I don't want to know the gender. I don't want to have to pick a name yet.
PARIS: Okay, okay, Mommy knows best.
TORRES: Mommy?

[Corridor]

PARIS: I wonder if the holodeck has any child-rearing programmes.
TORRES: There are some things you just can't simulate.
PARIS: I'll take whatever help I can get.
TORRES: We should get our quarters ready.
PARIS: Maybe I could replicate one of those antique cribs.
TORRES: And put it where? We need to rearrange the living area.
PARIS: We need to do a lot more than that.
TORRES: You're happy about this, right?
PARIS: Of course I'm happy. Just a little overwhelmed, that's all.
TORRES: Me too. Can we, er, keep this to ourselves for a while?
PARIS: Absolutely.
(They hug and laugh.)
TORRES: I, er, I need to get to work. See you later, Dad.

[Mess hall]

(Paris enters to a round of applause.)
NEELIX: Congratulations, Tom.
PARIS: Thanks. How did you find out?
NEELIX: Icheb. Oh, he wasn't supposed to tell?
PARIS: We were hoping to keep it private for an hour or so.
NEELIX: As they say on Talax, omara s'alas. Good news has no clothes.
PARIS: Thanks. I guess.
NEELIX: Now, my good news would be learning that I'll be the godfather. I do have experience with Naomi Wildman, you know.
PARIS: I can't think of anyone more qualified.
NEELIX: Well, in that case, I've been making up a list of names. Tell me

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: Have you checked the warp core for radiation leaks today?
TORRES: No. Why?
CHAKOTAY: You have a certain glow about you.
TORRES: Okay, who told you?
JANEWAY: I just heard. Congratulations.
(Janeway hugs Torres.)
TORRES: Thanks.
JANEWAY: Seven said you were dizzy. Are you all right?
TORRES: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing ever rattled her. Not even the Cardassians.
TORRES: This is scarier.
JANEWAY: Would you like some time off?
TORRES: To do what?
JANEWAY: Adjust. This is a big change.
TORRES: I'll work during the day, sleep at night, and have the baby when it's time.
JANEWAY: Well, if you need to cut back on your duties, I'm sure Seven would be happy to fill in for you.
TORRES: I think I can handle it.

[Corridor]

KIM: Congratulations, buddy.
PARIS: Where did you hear the news? In the datastream from Earth?
KIM: Actually, I think it was a transmission from the Borg. It's all over now. No more late nights on the holodeck. No more racing the Delta Flyer.
PARIS: Don't you think you're exaggerating just a little?
KIM: I've seen it happen. The new dad gets tied down with family. Old friends drop away.
PARIS: It's fatherhood , Harry, not exile.
KIM: If you say so. Kidding aside, how's it feel?
PARIS: Well, it's, it's not quite real yet.
KIM: Maybe that's what pregnancy's for. Time to let reality sink in, before your life spins out of control.

[Jefferies tube]

PARIS: Do you need any help?
TUVOK: Mister Paris, this may be the first time you've ever volunteered to assist me.
PARIS: Really? Well, we ought to change that. I mean, we've known each other a long time. We ought to work more closely.
TUVOK: I'll keep that in mind.
PARIS: So, I guess you've heard. B'Elanna and I are going to have a baby.
TUVOK: I was unaware.
PARIS: Finally, someone who doesn't know.
TUVOK: Allow me to extend my best wishes.
PARIS: Thanks. You know, a baby is, er, it's a big responsibility. But I'm ready for it. Not that you can ever be completely ready, can you?
TUVOK: Lieutenant, are you asking me for advice about fatherhood?
PARIS: Well, I don't know anyone else who's been through it.
TUVOK: I'm afraid my parenting skills are somewhat dormant. It's been many years since my children were young.
PARIS: Then you've had a long time to think back on it. Any helpful hints?
TUVOK: Offspring can be disturbingly illogical, yet profoundly fulfilling. You should anticipate paradox.
PARIS: I'll remember that.
TUVOK: If you'd like my counsel on more specific issues?
PARIS: Something tells me I'm going to be volunteering to work with you on a regular basis.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]

(Paris is lighting the candles for a romantic dinner.)
PARIS: So?
TORRES: Looks nice.
PARIS: Well, I figured quiet romantic dinners may soon be a thing of the past. Tough day?
TORRES: The captain practically relieved me of duty, as if I couldn't handle being an engineer and being pregnant at the same time.
PARIS: Well, if you ever need a baby-sitter, Godfather Neelix is ready to go.
TORRES: Chakotay wants to be godfather.
PARIS: Neelix already has a list of names.
TORRES: Oh, I don't mind people suggesting names. What annoys me is all of the free advice about feeding, discipline.
PARIS: Folk wisdom is my favourite. According to Chell, Bolians believe that if you give birth near a warp core, it'll improve the baby's disposition.
TORRES: Why does everybody feel they're entitled to give us advice? This is our child.
PARIS: People should know better than to interfere with a Klingon mother.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: Nothing. It was a joke.
TORRES: What does being Klingon have to do with it?
PARIS: Take it easy.
TORRES: I don't want to take it easy! I want everybody to back off and just let me. (pause) The Doctor said I might experience some behavioural volatility. I guess this is it.
PARIS: Forget about the Doctor. Forget the captain or the godfathers.
TORRES: Maybe you're right.
PARIS: I know I am. This isn't about their expectations or hopes or doubts. None of this belongs to them.
TORRES: It belongs to us. All of it.
PARIS: Lucky us.
EMH [OC]: Lieutenants Torres and Paris, please report to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: It's a holographic extrapolation of your child's spine, approximately ten months after birth.
TORRES: It's deviated.
EMH: Yes, there's a pronounced curvature to the left.
PARIS: Can it be corrected?
TORRES: I had surgery for it when I was a baby.
PARIS: You never told me that.
TORRES: My mother had it, too.
EMH: It tends to run in Klingon families, especially among females.
PARIS: Are you saying that this baby is a girl?
EMH: No. I didn't say that.
PARIS: But it is a girl, right?
EMH: You cannot infer that.
TORRES: It's okay. You might as well just tell us.
EMH: Yes. It's a girl. And aside from the deviated spine, she's healthy.
PARIS: Will she need surgery?
EMH: Fortunately, we've advanced beyond that. Genetic modification is the treatment of choice.
PARIS: If you can project an image of the spine, can you use the genetic data to show us the whole baby?
EMH: I could. It would only be an approximation.
PARIS: Let's take a look.
TORRES: I don't know.
PARIS: Oh, come on. Aren't you curious?
TORRES: Okay.
(The EMH complies.)
PARIS: Oh, she's beautiful.
TORRES: Forehead ridges?
EMH: Yes.
TORRES: But she's only one-quarter Klingon.
EMH: Klingon traits remain dominant for several generations, even with a single ancestor.
PARIS: Oh, she looks just like her mother.

[Torres' memory - campfire]

JOHN: You are so much like your mother.

[Sickbay]

PARIS: She's perfect, isn't she?

[Torres-Paris' quarters]

(Paris gets into bed with Torres.)
PARIS: What a day.
TORRES: Uh-huh.
PARIS: Six years in the Delta Quadrant and nothing has ever scared me as much as hearing our baby had a problem.
TORRES: It's not much of a problem.
PARIS: We didn't know that at first.
TORRES: Now we know.
PARIS: And we also know that the Doctor is going to fix everything tomorrow morning.
TORRES: I'm sorry. It's a lot to take in all at once, and I'm really tired.
PARIS: We could both use some sleep. Computer, dim the lights.

[Torres' memories - camping trip]

CARL: Somebody make sure those coals are completely out.
DEAN: I'll get it, Dad.
JOHN: You kids be careful and be back before sunset.
CARL: And bring your appetites. We're having fish for dinner.
ELIZABETH: If you two can catch any.
B'ELANNA: Dad, I increased the field strength of the targeting lure.
JOHN: Ooo. Those fish don't stand a chance. Better get going, your cousins aren't going to wait forever.
B'ELANNA: I was thinking. Maybe I could go fishing with you and Uncle Carl.
JOHN: I thought you were looking forward to the hike. Just the kids, no dads to slow you down.
B'ELANNA: They don't like me.
JOHN: Why would you say that?
B'ELANNA: Because it's true.
ELIZABETH: Come on, B'Elanna, let's go.
JOHN: See? Now go on, have a good time.
B'ELANNA: Dad?
JOHN: What is it?
B'ELANNA: Nothing.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]

(Next morning, the toaster pops.)
PARIS: Relax, we're not that late.
TORRES: The Doctor scheduled me at oh eight hundred.
PARIS: You still have time for my favourite gourmet breakfast, peanut butter toast.
TORRES: I'm too tired to eat.
PARIS: If you're having trouble sleeping now, wait till those oh two hundred feedings come around.
TORRES: You'll be in charge of those.
PARIS: I can't wait.
TORRES: Look, er, you don't have to come with me. It a minor procedure.
PARIS: Wouldn't you like some moral support?
TORRES: I'm not an invalid.
PARIS: In that case you're on your own. That goes for breakfast, too.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've been expanding my database in obstetrics and paediatrics.
TORRES: You haven't found another problem, have you?
EMH: No, not at all. But I have put together a prenatal enrichment programme.
TORRES: Why am I not surprised?
EMH: I'd like to start with trans-abdominal vocalisation.
TORRES: Let me guess. You're going to sing to my foetus.
EMH: Through a diatonal amplifier. It's quite safe, and it should enhance the child's mathematical abilities.
TORRES: Can we talk about this later?
EMH: Absolutely. At our first parenting class.
TORRES: Parenting class?
EMH: Birthing techniques, feeding options, bonding strategies. It's not all hard work, though. We'll have ample time for fun.
TORRES: Could we get on with it?
EMH: Certainly. Computer, dim lights.
TORRES: I hope you don't expect me to sleep through this.
EMH: Of course not. The darkness encourages vascular dilation. Now you may feel a slight tingling. Please remain as still as possible.

[Torres' memories - hiking]

MICHAEL: B'Elanna, come and have lunch.
B'ELANNA: That's okay. I'm not hungry.
MICHAEL: You'd better eat while you can. You know our dads aren't going to catch any fish.
ELIZABETH: Here.
(Elizabeth takes a sandwich out of a box.)
B'ELANNA: Thanks.
ELIZABETH: Your mom wasn't sure you'd be able to come this weekend.
(The boys see some worms on the ground.)
B'ELANNA: I had a lot of schoolwork. 
ELIZABETH: I'm glad you made it.
B'ELANNA: That's nice of you to say.
ELIZABETH: No, I mean it.
DEAN: Hey, B'Elanna, can you hand me a drink?
B'ELANNA: Okay.
(While she isn't looking, he puts a worm on her sandwich.)
DEAN: Thanks.
(B'Elanna sees the worm and screams, throwing the sandwich away. The boys laugh.)
DEAN: My teacher said Klingons like live food.
(B'Elanna grabs Dean's shirt.)
ELIZABETH: Hey, stop it. Stop.
DEAN: It was just a joke.
ELIZABETH: It was a stupid joke, Dean. He's always doing stuff like that to me.
(B'Elanna growls and runs off.)
DEAN: Don't be mad, B'Elanna.
ELIZABETH: B'Elanna, wait.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Computer, raise lights. Your daughter's spinal column is now perfectly aligned.
TORRES: Is she going to be all right?
EMH: Better than all right, if her parents are any indication.

[Holodeck research lab]

TORRES: Computer, access B'Elanna Torres' medical file.
COMPUTER: File accessed.
TORRES: Project a holographic image of the baby.
(Up comes the image seen in Sickbay.)
TORRES: Now extrapolate what the child's facial features will look like at twelve years old.
(Torres turns her back on the child with the forehead ridges.)
TORRES: Display the foetus genome.
(DNA Analysis 716)
TORRES: Delete the following gene sequences. Extrapolate what the child would look like with those genetic changes.
(The forehead ridges are still here, but the hair is pale instead of dark.)
TORRES: Delete the following sequences. Extrapolate.
(The ridges are now gone.)
TORRES: Save changes. Restrict access to this file. B'Elanna Torres only.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: There's no valid medical reason to do what you're proposing.
TORRES: I disagree.
EMH: You want to delete entire DNA sequences. The genes that create redundant organs, for example.
TORRES: They're superfluous.
EMH: Those redundancies are there for a reason.
TORRES: Does my daughter need a third lung to survive?
EMH: Strictly speaking, no. But having it may be beneficial. Some geneticists believe the extra lung evolved to give Klingons greater stamina on the battlefield.
TORRES: My daughter is not going to be a Klingon warrior.
EMH: With all due respect, you have no idea what your daughter's going to be. What if she develops an interest in athletics? Greater lung capacity would be an advantage. The point is, there's no reason to arbitrarily remove genetic traits.
TORRES: It's not arbitrary. It's preventive.
EMH: How so?
TORRES: That third lung could become diseased, couldn't it?
EMH: I suppose.
TORRES: Then what I'm suggesting is no different than removing an appendix before it becomes inflamed.
EMH: Why tamper with biological systems that evolved over aeons?
TORRES: Like curvature of the spine?
EMH: If I make these changes, it'll affect her appearance.
TORRES: I'm aware of that.
EMH: Are you also aware that some of these genes influence behaviour, personality?
TORRES: None of that's as important as her health.
EMH: What does Tom think about all this?
TORRES: I wanted to see what you thought first.
EMH: As you can see, I'm very dubious.
TORRES: Look, I've done statistical analyses, epidemiology. At least review my work.
EMH: All right, I'll look at it. But in the meantime, I suggest you have a talk with your husband.

[Delta Flyer]

(Presumably in the shuttlebay.)
PARIS: Absolutely not.
TORRES: This is our child's health we're talking about.
PARIS: It's more than that. You want to change who she is, her individuality, her. You don't want her to be Klingon. That's what this is really about, isn't it? You're trying to protect her from being Klingon because you had a rough time when you were a kid.
TORRES: I was treated like a monster.
PARIS: That isn't going to happen to our daughter. Everyone on Voyager will accept her for who she really is.
TORRES: That's easy for you to say. You're human.
PARIS: Meaning what, exactly?
TORRES: Meaning you don't understand what it's like.
PARIS: Okay then, tell me.
TORRES: When the people around you are all one way and you're not, you can't help feeling like there's something wrong with you.
PARIS: Voyager isn't just one way. We've got Bajorans, Vulcans, a Talaxian.
TORRES: And hundred and forty humans.
PARIS: Our daughter is going to have a mixed heritage just like her mother. It's something you'll have in common. Something she should be proud of. Why destroy that?
TORRES: I'm not destroying anything. Gene resequencing isn't a weapon, it's a tool, like a hyperspanner.
PARIS: She's not a machine, She's our daughter.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I'm not exactly sure what you want me to do.
TORRES: I want you to order the Doctor to genetically alter my child.
PARIS: Do you see what I'm dealing with here?
JANEWAY: What you're asking for is ethically questionable. The Doctor has reservations. Your husband is against it.
TORRES: I only want to do what you did, for Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
TORRES: You had her implants removed.
JANEWAY: I don't see the connection.
TORRES: You altered her physiology. You changed who she was.
JANEWAY: I was acting in her best interests.
TORRES: That's all I'm doing.
PARIS: Seven was born human. The captain just helped to restore her original physiology.
TORRES: And gave her a much better life in the process.
PARIS: Our child isn't even born yet. How do you know what's going to make her life better?
TORRES: I just don't want her to start at a disadvantage.
PARIS: Look, the Doctor said you might experience mood swings.
TORRES: That's it. Just dismiss my argument as some kind of hormonal outburst.
PARIS: I didn't mean that.
JANEWAY: Stop it, both of you. The biggest problem you two have isn't ethical, it's marital. I'm happy to offer you advice as a friend. But as your captain, I'm not going to overrule the Chief Medical Officer. You two need to work this out.

[Corridor]

PARIS: B'Elanna?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: You heard the captain. We have to work this out.
TORRES: There's nothing to work out. You're getting what you want.
PARIS: What I want is to have a civilised discussion with my wife. Maybe a change of scenery would help. How about the holodeck?
TORRES: That's your solution to everything.
PARIS: At least I'm trying. Look, I don't care where we do it, but we have to talk this out.
TORRES: I am tired of talking, all right?

[Kim's quarters]

(Kim is playing his saxophone. He breaks off to answer the doorbell. Paris is there with a duffel bag.)
PARIS: Do I need a reservation?
KIM: What happened?
PARIS: I think B'Elanna and I need some time apart.
KIM: My couch is your couch.
PARIS: She's barely pregnant and already we're having a major crisis.
KIM: You'll make up. You always do.
PARIS: But that's what worries me. We're always fighting and making up. How's that going to affect our daughter?
KIM: She's going to have a great life. Piloting a ship from your lap, battling Doctor Chaotica on the holodeck.
PARIS: Yeah, unless B'Elanna thinks battling is too Klingon.
KIM: She's always been sensitive about being part Klingon. You know that.
PARIS: That doesn't give her the right to turn our child into a science experiment.
KIM: But it does explain why this is so important to her.
PARIS: What am I supposed to do?
KIM: Maybe you should tell her you understand.
PARIS: What good would that do?
KIM: It might make her less defensive, and then maybe it would be easier for her to see your point of view.
PARIS: What if she can't?
KIM: Like I said, my couch is your couch.

[Torres' memories - campsite]

(Night.)
JOHN: She should be back by now.
CARL: Nobody has any idea where she went?
DEAN: She just ran off down there.
JOHN: I'm going to go look for her.
ELIZABETH: Uncle John?
JOHN: Yeah?
ELIZABETH: I. It.
(B'Elanna comes out of the bushes.)
JOHN: B'Elanna, where have you been?
B'ELANNA: I'm sorry. I got kind of separated.
ELIZABETH: It was our fault.
MICHAEL: It was Dean's fault. He put a worm in her sandwich.
DEAN: I was just kidding. I'm really sorry.
B'ELANNA: Forget it.
CARL: Come on, let's get dinner started.
(B'Elanna is a little way away from the camp fire, sitting on a rock. Her father goes to her.)
JOHN: You want to talk about it?
B'ELANNA: I just wish.
JOHN: You wish what?
B'ELANNA: I wish I weren't Klingon.
JOHN: Now why would you say that?
B'ELANNA: Because everyone makes fun of me.
JOHN: Who's everyone?
B'ELANNA: Dean. The kids at school. They all hate me.
JOHN: Did I ever tell you what the kids at my school used to call me? I used to fall asleep in class all the time, so instead of John Torres, they called me John Snore-ez.
B'ELANNA: It's not the same thing.
JOHN: Of course it is. Kids tease each other. They can be very cruel. But it doesn't mean that they hate you, or that they hate Klingons.
B'ELANNA: You don't understand!
JOHN: I think I do. You have to learn to be a little less sensitive.
B'ELANNA: Fine.
JOHN: Now come on. Uncle Carl's going to tell one of his famous fish stories.
B'ELANNA: I'd rather just read.
JOHN: Suit yourself.
(B'Elanna goes to one side to read a PADD, and John goes to the camp fire.)
CARL: We saw a flying fish today.
ELIZABETH: Flying fish?
CARL: It's true. I'm telling. You we saw it.
MICHAEL: Really?
CARL: John, did we see a flying fish today?
JOHN: We sure did. It jumped five feet in the air.
(Torres is sitting up in bed remembering all this. Later, when the kids are put to bed in their tents.)
JOHN: Everybody asleep?
CARL: They were exhausted. Coffee?
JOHN: Sure.
CARL: Listen, I'm sorry.
JOHN: For what?
CARL: The way Dean treated B'Elanna. I had a talk with him.
JOHN: He was just doing what eleven year olds do. I'm sure B'Elanna overreacted.
CARL: What makes you say that?
JOHN: She's too damn sensitive.
CARL: What do you mean? She's a great kid.
JOHN: You haven't been around her much the last couple of years. She's gotten moody, unpredictable, argumentative. Just like her mother.
(B'Elanna is listening.)
CARL: I thought you loved Miral's intensity.
JOHN: Everything's become a fight with her. I guess the older, I get the less intensity I can handle. You know, it's funny how Mom and Dad always turn out to be right.
CARL: What do you mean?
JOHN: Mom warned me not to marry Miral.
CARL: Mom loved Miral.
JOHN: Sure she did. But she never thought I had the constitution to live with a Klingon. And now I'm living with two of them.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: Taya.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY: Taya. It's the feminine form of Chakotay. What do you think?
TORRES: I'll add it to the list. Right after Floxia. Neelix suggested that one. It's number thirty two.
CHAKOTAY: On second thought, you and Tom ought to come up with your own name.
TORRES: I knew there was a reason I always liked you.
CHAKOTAY: You look like you've been up all night. Want to get some coffee?
TORRES: That's the best offer I've had all week.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Morning.
TORRES: Hi.
CHAKOTAY: Join us for breakfast? You know what? I forgot my PADD. Why don't you two go ahead. I'll meet you in the mess hall.
(Chakotay leaves.)
PARIS: So, how are you today?
TORRES: I haven't changed my mind, if that's what you mean.
PARIS: No. What I meant was, how are you?
TORRES: I've been better, but I'll get over it.
PARIS: You know, Harry has the lumpiest pillows on the ship. He snores, keeps the room way too hot. I missed you.
TORRES: Me too.
PARIS: I still owe you that slice of peanut butter toast. Why don't we go back to our quarters, fire up the toaster?
TORRES: Sounds nice.
EMH [OC]: Lieutenant Torres, Lieutenant Paris, please report to Sickbay.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I've reviewed the data you gave me, and I've also done my own analysis.
TORRES: Skip the details, Doctor. You've already made it clear what you think of my proposal.
EMH: Actually, I've changed my opinion.
PARIS: What?
EMH: The genetic alterations you've suggested are necessary.
PARIS: On what grounds?
EMH: The clash I mentioned between Klingon and human metabolism? It's more extensive than I realised.
TORRES: How extensive?
EMH: Theoretically, it could lead to complete metabolic failure.
TORRES: But you can fix it.
EMH: By eliminating most of her Klingon genetic material.
PARIS: Are you sure about all of this?
EMH: My analysis was quite thorough. Of course if our circumstances were different, you would be free to seek a second opinion.
PARIS: No offence, Doc, but I am just trying to understand what's going on.
EMH: You're welcome to review my findings. But let me stress, it would be unwise to delay this too long.
TORRES: Why?
EMH: The foetus is at a critical stage of development. Antibodies have begun to form.
PARIS: How long do we have?
EMH: I've scheduled the procedure for tomorrow morning. With your permission.

[Astrometrics lab]

PARIS: I want to thank you both for helping B'Elanna when she fainted.
SEVEN: I'm glad it wasn't a parasite.
PARIS: Well, you probably don't know this, but there may be some problems with the pregnancy.
SEVEN: I'm sorry to hear that.
PARIS: The Doctor suggested a treatment for the baby, but his findings are very confusing, at least to me. You have some expertise in genetics. Do you mind taking a look at this?
ICHEB: Of course not.
(Icheb looks over the PADD.)
SEVEN: Whatever the problem is, I have no doubt the Doctor will solve it.
PARIS: I hope you're right.
ICHEB: Your confusion is understandable. There's a computational error.
SEVEN: It's not like the Doctor to make a mistake.
PARIS: I didn't think that was possible, unless there's some sort of glitch in his programme.
SEVEN: I'll run a diagnostic.
PARIS: Thank you.
ICHEB: Please tell Lieutenant Torres, if there's anything I can do.
PARIS: I'll let her know. Thanks.
SEVEN: It appears to be more than a glitch. I believe the Doctor's programme has been tampered with.
PARIS: B'Elanna, this is Tom. Respond. Computer, locate Lieutenant Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(Torres is on the biobed, about to undergo foetal genetic resequencing.)
EMH: Frankly, I'm relieved you decided not to wait till the last minute.
TORRES: Once this is behind us I'm sure we'll all feel better.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Someone's blocked communications to Sickbay.
PARIS: See if you can deactivate the Doctor.
SEVEN: Access to his programme has been restricted.
PARIS: Keep trying. Paris to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Go ahead.
PARIS: Meet me in Sickbay.

[Outside Sickbay]

TUVOK: Why would she alter the Doctor's programme?
PARIS: To change his mind about the medical procedure. Computer, open Sickbay doors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
TUVOK: Override authorisation Tuvok pi alpha.
COMPUTER: Authorisation denied.
(Tuvok forces the doors open.)

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Doctor, stop what you're doing.
EMH: You're interrupting a medical procedure.
(Paris walks into a forcefield.)
PARIS: Your programme has been altered.
EMH: What do you mean, altered?
TORRES: Ignore him.
PARIS: B'Elanna, this is completely irrational.
EMH: Will someone please tell me what's going on?
TORRES: I'm your patient. Your first duty is to me and my baby.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge.
KIM [OC]: Kim here.
TUVOK: There's a force field in Sickbay.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: I can't deactivate it. Cut power to the EPS relay

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: Surrounding the surgical bay.

[Bridge]

KIM: Access has been restricted. I'll have to bypass them.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: You said it could be dangerous to delay the procedure.
PARIS: She's manipulating you, Doc, in more ways than one.
EMH: I'm sorry, Lieutenant, but if there's something wrong with my programme.
TORRES: There's nothing wrong with your programme.
KIM [OC]: I'm cutting power to the surgical bay, now.
(Paris turns off the gene resequencer.)
TUVOK: I suggest we deactivate your programme until we determine the extent of the alterations.
EMH: I understand. Computer, deactivate EMH.
TORRES: You had no right to interfere.
PARIS: Tuvok, would you mind giving us a minute?
(Tuvok leaves with his security guards.)
PARIS: I never thought you would go this far.
TORRES: I don't know what you're talking about.
PARIS: Reprogramming the Doctor?
TORRES: I upgraded his programme so he could understand what had to be done.
PARIS: You mean to reconfigure our baby so she wouldn't be treated like a monster.
TORRES: It's not just about the way she'll be treated.
PARIS: What else is it about, then? Come on, B'Elanna. Tell me.
TORRES: Forget it.
PARIS: No, no, we're not going to forget it. We're going to talk about this right now.
TORRES: Stop telling me what to do. You're not my father.
PARIS: What are you talking about?
TORRES: Look, my father
PARIS: What? What about him?
TORRES: We were inseparable. He spoiled me and I worshipped him. But the older I got, we just grew apart. He ended up organising this camping trip with my cousins. I guess he just wanted to, I don't know, make things better again.
PARIS: But it didn't.
TORRES: It was awful. I ended up trying to run away.

[Torres' memory - campsite]

JOHN: B'Elanna? What are you doing?
(B'Elanna is packing her bag.)

[Sickbay]

TORRES: It was so stupid. I mean, where was I going to go?
PARIS: You probably just wanted him to stop you.
TORRES: Well, he did.

[Torres' memory - campsite]

B'ELANNA: Don't touch me.
JOHN: B'Elanna, what's wrong?
B'ELANNA: You know what's wrong.
JOHN: No, I don't.
B'ELANNA: Maybe I'm just being moody and unpredictable.
JOHN: What are you talking about?
B'ELANNA: I heard what you said to Uncle Carl.
JOHN: You shouldn't be listening to private conversations.
B'ELANNA: And you shouldn't have said what you did about Mommy.
(They move away from the other tents, and B'Elanna sits on that rock again.)
JOHN: B'Elanna, listen to me. Your mother and I are having problems, but that doesn't
B'ELANNA: You don't love her anymore.
JOHN: That's not true.
B'ELANNA: Yes, it is. And you don't love me, either.
JOHN: B'Elanna.
B'ELANNA: You're no different than anyone else. You don't like Klingons. You said it.
JOHN: You are twisting my words, B'Elanna.

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Maybe he was right. Maybe you misunderstood.
TORRES: No, I know what I heard. It made me so angry.
PARIS: You had a right to be, after the things he said.
TORRES: It's not what he said. It's what I said.

[Torres' memory - campsite]

B'ELANNA: If you can't stand living with us, then why don't you just leave?

[Sickbay]

TORRES: And that's exactly what he did.
PARIS: Oh, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Twelve days later. And he never came back.
PARIS: You can't blame yourself for that.
TORRES: Why not?
PARIS: Because he was obviously unhappy about his marriage. He didn't leave just because you told him to.
TORRES: You don't know that.
PARIS: Look, whatever the reason was, I'm sure it was a horrible thing for you to live with. Wait a minute. You don't think? B'Elanna, I am never going to leave you.
TORRES: You say that now. But think about how hard it is to live with one Klingon. Pretty soon it'll be two.
PARIS: And someday I hope it's three or four. I mean it. And I hope that every one of them is just like you. B'Elanna, I am not your father and you are not your mother. And our daughter is going to be perfect just the way she is.
TORRES: Do you really think so?
PARIS: I know so.

Medical officer's log, stardate 54452.6. Lieutenant Torres has deleted the alterations she made to my programme. It's a relief to be back to my old self again.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Good morning, Lieutenant. You're not feeling ill, are you?
TORRES: No. I'm fine. I just wanted to apologise for violating your programme.
EMH: Apology accepted. Not guilty by reason of biochemistry.
TORRES: Nice of you to let me off the hook. But biochemistry isn't an excuse. I knew exactly what I was doing. Oh!
EMH: Is something wrong?
TORRES: I don't know.
(She holds her abdomen. The EMH scans her.)
EMH: Your baby's kicking.
TORRES: So soon?
EMH: Well, she is part Klingon.
TORRES: Oh. There it is again.
EMH: May I?
(He puts his hand on her abdomen.)
EMH: Feisty little thing, isn't she? I wonder where she gets that from.
TORRES: Speaking of the baby, I have another request.
EMH: Yes?
TORRES: I wonder if you'd like to be her godfather. Neelix wants the job but he's already got Naomi Wildman. And Chakotay knows less about raising kids than Harry. And if you think
EMH: I accept.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: Thank you.
TORRES: I was also wondering. Do you think I could see her one more time? The holographic projection, I mean.
EMH: I don't see why not.
(He calls up the baby with the ridges, floating blissfully in mid-air, or the womb.)
TORRES: She is cute, isn't she?


S7 E13
Repentance
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 31 January 2001

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager. We're responding to your distress call.
YEDIQ [OC]: A ruptured conduit is flooding my ship with plasma radiation. We request immediate transport.
KIM: I'm detecting eleven life signs. Two are weak.
JANEWAY: Transport the injured to Sickbay and the rest to Cargo Bay one. I want security teams at both locations.

[Cargo Bay one]

(Nine people are beamed in, three in dark overalls, six in light overalls. Tuvok and his team enters. The leader of the dark overalls discovers his hands are empty.)
YEDIQ: Our weapons!
TUVOK: They'll be returned to you when you leave.
YEDIQ: These are dangerous criminals. They have to be secured.
TUVOK: We'll do our best to accommodate you.
YEDIQ: I had eight men in custody. Where are the other two?

[Sickbay]

EMH: We're not going to hurt you.
(One of them has a laser scalpel to Seven's throat.)
IKO: Stay away or I'll kill her!
EMH: I'm sure we can resolve this without resorting to violence. What is it you want?
IKO: A ship, some food.
EMH: I might be able to arrange that, but you'll have to release her first.
IKO: I'm not a fool.
(Tuvok and Yediq enter.)
IKO: You know I'll do it. Tell them.
YEDIQ: You're not getting off this ship.
TUVOK: If you release her, I promise you won't be harmed.
IKO: Not until I get a ship.
YEDIQ: We don't negotiate with criminals.
EMH: Who are you?
YEDIQ: Warden Yediq of the Nygean Detention Force. This man is my prisoner.
EMH: If that were true, he wouldn't be holding my friend hostage.
(Seven elbows Iko in the stomach and is free, so he grabs the EMH instead.)
IKO: Get back!
EMH: I'm a hologram. I can't be harmed.
(Tuvok fires his phaser through the EMH and stuns Iko.)
EMH: I think you proved my point.

[Ready room]

YEDIQ: We're lucky you came along, Captain. Ten more minutes and none of use would have survived the plasma leak.
TUVOK: Your vessel was equipped with escape pods. Why didn't you use them?
YEDIQ: I couldn't risk letting any of the prisoners get away. As you've seen, they're extremely dangerous.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you taking them?
YEDIQ: Back to our homeworld. They're due to be executed.
TUVOK: What were their crimes?
YEDIQ: All eight are murderers. Three are multiple offenders. We're just thirteen light years from our system. I'd appreciate it if you'd take us back there.
JANEWAY: Actually, we were headed in the opposite direction.
YEDIQ: I could arrange for one of our ships to rendezvous with Voyager. It'll take several days. My prisoners will have to be strictly monitored.
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok will help you make arrangements.
(Tuvok and Yediq leave.)
CHAKOTAY: Some of the crew may not be comfortable helping to deliver eight men to their deaths.
JANEWAY: I can't say I like it either, but we have a Prime Directive to follow.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Thirty more seconds and I could have resolved the situation peacefully. Instead, you and Tuvok the Kid had to take matters into your own hands.
(The EMH flickers.)
SEVEN: You're damaged.
EMH: Commander Tuvok's friendly fire must have caused a feedback surge in my emitters.
SEVEN: I'll help you repair it.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: How are you?
SEVEN: Fine, Captain.
IKO: You. This your ship?
JANEWAY: Yes.
IKO: Then let me out.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that.
(Iko and the other injured prisoner are behind the surgical bay forcefield. He proves it by pushing against it as long as he can.)
IKO: If you don't, I'll kill you all.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Are the prisoners' accommodations ready?
TUVOK [OC]: Affirmative, Captain.
JANEWAY: Then by all means, initiate transport.

[Cargo Bay one]

(Iko and his companion are transported into mesh cages.)
YEDIQ: You're sure these will hold them?
TUVOK: The force fields are impenetrable, as are the tritanium bulkheads. In addition to your staff, two Voyager security officers will remain here at all times. Two more will be posted at the entrance to the cargo bay.
YEDIQ: What about our weapons?
TUVOK: You'll be allowed to carry them in this area only. If you leave the cargo bay, you'll be asked to surrender them.
YEDIQ: What's this?
(Neelix is pushing a trolley.)
NEELIX: Dinner. Since you can't bring the prisoners to the mess hall, I've brought the mess hall to them.
YEDIQ: What is it?
NEELIX: Talaxian spice stew served over leola rice pilaf. It's an old family recipe.
YEDIQ: Take it back.
NEELIX: Too spicy?
YEDIQ: These men don't deserve such an elaborate meal. Take it back.
NEELIX: Federation guidelines are quite clear about the treatment of prisoners.
TUVOK: He is correct.
NEELIX: I can quote the protocols if you like.
(Yediq confiscates the forks.)
YEDIQ: My men will assist you.
(Neelix serves some stew into a bowl. A hole is created in a forcefield for him to pass it through to the first prisoner.)
JOLEG: Thanks for standing up to Yediq.
NEELIX: Just doing my job.
JOLEG: Still, it was kind.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: This would be easier if you would remain stationary.
EMH: It doesn't feel right.
SEVEN: You may experience unusual sensations while your matrix realigns.
EMH: I was referring to the arrangement the captain's made with the Nygeans. No matter how terrible the crimes these men committed, it seems wrong to hand them over to be executed. This is a Federation Starship, not the Barge of the Dead.
SEVEN: Would you have preferred the captain release them?
EMH: Of course not. They're dangerous men.
SEVEN: Executing them ensures they'll never pose a threat to anyone again.
EMH: So would life sentences, the operative word being life.
SEVEN: Confining them for life requires significant resources. The Nygeans may not think it worthwhile.
EMH: What about rehabilitation? Given the chance, some of these men might become productive members of society one day.
SEVEN: Their victims won't have the same opportunity.
EMH: And that justifies taking their lives? An eye for an eye? It's not justice, it's revenge. Quite frankly, I'm surprised you're not troubled by such a barbaric system.
SEVEN: I'm simply being objective. You often encourage me to see both sides of an argument.
EMH: Well, this is one occasion when my programming won't allow me to be objective. Killing is wrong, no matter who's doing it.

[Cargo Bay one]

(Iko throws his empty bowl across his cell.)
JOLEG: Still hungry? I can hear your stomach from here. This must be the first time in a month you couldn't steal poor Egrid's meal.
(He rattles his cage.)
JOLEG: Good, isn't it?
(Iko throws his bowl at the forcefield. Yediq and a guard come down the row.)
YEDIQ: Is there a problem?
JOLEG: Iko was just telling me he didn't get enough to eat.
YEDIQ: I see. Cause another disturbance, and I'll see to it you're not fed the rest of this journey. Do you understand?
IKO: Boche and Ledara.
YEDIQ: What did you say?
IKO: Your children.
YEDIQ: How did you know that?
IKO: Are you sure they're safe?
YEDIQ: Some people don't understand why we deal so harshly with men like you. It's because you never learn.
(Three Nygean guards enter Iko's cell and beat him up with their weapons. Two Starfleet guards come running.)
ANDREWS: Stand down. Stand down!
YEDIQ: He needs to be disciplined.
ANDREWS: Lower your weapons and step away.
(Yediq nods and his men obey after a last kick. Iko lies bleeding and unconscious on the deck.)

[Ready room]

YEDIQ: Our response was justified.
JANEWAY: How do you justify beating a defenceless man?
YEDIQ: Violence is the only thing he understands.
JANEWAY: You seem to have a pretty good grasp of it yourself.
YEDIQ: Do not presume to tell me how to handle my prisoners, Captain. You don't know Iko like I do. He killed a young father for no reason. Before that, he committed dozens of violent crimes. He spent his entire life hurting people.
JANEWAY: That doesn't excuse what you did to him. Until your transport vessel gets here, you and your men won't be allowed in the cargo bay. You're in charge of the prisoners.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
YEDIQ: They're my responsibility.
JANEWAY: Not as long as you're aboard my ship. I won't risk any more violence.
YEDIQ: The only risk will be to your crew. Commander Tuvok isn't qualified to guard prisoners this dangerous.
JANEWAY: Tuvok has been a Starfleet Security officer for a very long time. Believe me, he's qualified.
YEDIQ: I hope you're right.

[Sickbay]

(Iko has been transported for treatment. Seven enters.)
EMH: You remember Mister Iko.
SEVEN: Vividly.
EMH: The Nygeans decided to make an example of him.
SEVEN: Did you call me here to make a point about Nygean barbarity?
EMH: I called you here because I need your help to save his life. He sustained a severe blow to the head which has caused severe oedema in his parietal lobe. It's blocking vital neurotransmitters. I'd like to programme some of your nanoprobes to bypass the oedema.
SEVEN: I'll comply.
EMH: I sense a but coming.
SEVEN: It seems inefficient to save the life of someone who's about to be executed.
EMH: If the Nygeans insist on killing him, there isn't much I can do about it. But I won't let them do it on Voyager.

[Cargo Bay one]

(Neelix is serving the next meal.)
JOLEG: I didn't expect to see you back so soon. Ordinarily, we're lucky to get one meal a day.
NEELIX: That's terrible.
JOLEG: Yediq likes to keep us hungry.
PRISONER [OC]: Less talk. We're hungry.
JOLEG: You're wondering why I'm here.
NEELIX: Excuse me?
JOLEG: You're wondering what I did to end up with men like them.
NEELIX: You killed someone.
JOLEG: That's right.
(Neelix hands Joleg his meal.)
NEELIX: Why?
JOLEG: Because I'm Benkaran.
NEELIX: What does that have to do with it?
JOLEG: It's common knowledge that all Benkarans are criminals. So when I was found in the vicinity of a murder, I was immediately arrested.
NEELIX: Are you saying you didn't do it?
JOLEG: I told you, I'm Benkaran. What I say doesn't matter.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH wakes Iko.)
EMH: You suffered severe neurological trauma, but I believe we've repaired the damage.
IKO: Thank you.
EMH: Don't thank me, thank Seven of Nine. She donated the nanoprobes that saved your life.
IKO: Oh, my head.
EMH: The pain is normal. I'll prepare an analgesic.
(The EMH walks through the forcefield.)
IKO: You're not afraid of me.
SEVEN: There's no reason to fear someone in your condition.
IKO: You were never afraid of me. Not even when I tried to kill you. It's nice to look into someone's eyes and not see fear.

[Galley]

PARIS [OC]: You have to be a criminal to get something to eat around here?
(Neelix is reading a PADD while tending a pot.)
NEELIX: Sorry. Dinner will be ready in fifteen minutes.
(Torres slides the shutters apart.)
TORRES: You said that fifteen minutes ago.
NEELIX: Did you know the Nygeans govern a sector of space occupied by several different humanoid species?
PARIS: If we say yes, will you feed us?
NEELIX: One of those species is the Benkarans. They occupy just ten percent of Nygean space, but take up nearly eighty percent of the space in Nygean prisons.
PARIS: Maybe they commit more crimes.
NEELIX: Not according to Joleg, one of the prisoners.
TORRES: You think he was given a harsher sentence because of his species?
NEELIX: According to this, Benkarans are ten times more likely to be executed for their crimes than Nygeans.
TORRES: Where'd you get that?
NEELIX: I contacted the Nygean government. Told them I was interested in a cultural exchange. Among other things, they let me access data on their criminal justice system. It all supports what Joleg told me.
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: I know what you're thinking.
PARIS: That you're the softest touch in the Delta Quadrant.
NEELIX: These are the transcripts from Joleg's trial. He was convicted on circumstantial evidence.
PARIS: Let me guess. He was in the wrong place at the wrong time?
NEELIX: Apparently.
PARIS: Neelix, when I was in the Federation penal colony, everybody had a story. I never put much stock in them. Neither should you.
NEELIX: How many of those people were sentenced to die?

[Sickbay]

IKO: I still don't understand. Why weren't you hurt?
EMH: Because my matrix is photonic. I'm made of light.
SEVEN: You wanted to see me?
EMH: I'll be with you in just a moment.
IKO: You don't feel pain?
EMH: Well, I suppose my pride has been wounded on occasion.
IKO: I wish I was made of light.
EMH: Try to rest.
(He walks through security forcefield.)
EMH: Mister Iko responded so well to the first dose of nanoprobes, I thought a second might improve his condition further. It'll only take a moment to extract them.
SEVEN: You and Mister Iko seem to be getting along well.
EMH: It's the strangest thing. When he first arrived he was crude, abusive. Now he's a model patient. Grateful, considerate.
SEVEN: He's obviously an unstable individual. Inconsistent behaviour is hardly surprising.
EMH: Still, if it weren't for the security detail, I'd forget he was a criminal.
SEVEN: It's possible he's trying to manipulate you.
IKO: Doctor?
EMH: What's the matter?
IKO: My stomach.
EMH: I'm not detecting anything.
IKO: I, I can't.
EMH: What's wrong?
IKO: I can't stop thinking about the man I killed.
SEVEN: That's not surprising. You're experiencing guilt.
IKO: Is that why I'm feeling sick?
EMH: Nausea could be a symptom of guilt.
IKO: I've never felt guilty before.
SEVEN: You've committed many crimes.
IKO: None of them made me feel like this. Why did you do this to me?
SEVEN: We're not responsible for your guilt.
IKO: I didn't feel this way until you put those nanoprobes in me. You knew this would happen, didn't you? This is some kind of punishment. Take the nanoprobes out.
EMH: You could die.
IKO: Please. I don't want to feel this way anymore. 

[Medical lab]

SEVEN: You don't honestly believe we're responsible for his condition.
EMH: We applied the Borg technology. It's possible there were some unforeseen side effects.
SEVEN: Guilt, for example.
EMH: Look at this.
(Cerebral Scan 1027)
SEVEN: What?
EMH: It's my most recent scan. The neurotransmitters have established new pathways throughout his cortex.
SEVEN: Wasn't that your intention?
EMH: No, I was simply trying to bypass the oedema.
SEVEN: Then how did this happen?
EMH: I don't know. It's possible this is normal Nygean brain activity, but I have no basis for comparison.
SEVEN: You should ask Mister Yediq to contact a Nygean medical official. Maybe they could provide some relevant information. 

[Sickbay]

IKO: Seven of Nine. Stay and talk to me.
SEVEN: I'm extremely busy.
IKO: Please. I'm scared.
SEVEN: What did you want to discuss? I'm due in Astrometrics, so if there's
IKO: Astrometrics? What's that?
SEVEN: A laboratory where we observe stellar phenomena.
IKO: When I was a child, I'd lie under the stars for hours. I'd stare at them until I could see the shapes.
SEVEN: Shapes?
IKO: Faces and animals made out of stars.
SEVEN: You're referring to constellations.
IKO: I named them. There was Paedos the warrior, and Gezid the beast. No matter how hard he tried Paedos could never catch Gezid.
SEVEN: Because the distance between them always remained the same.
IKO: You've seen them?
SEVEN: Possibly. I've catalogued approximately six billion stars.
IKO: Then you must have seen Onella, too. The Mother.
SEVEN: Describe her.
IKO: She was surrounded by sixteen smaller stars. Her daughters. If I try, I think I can remember all their names.

[Cargo Bay one]

JOLEG: Eleven six, green.
PRISONER [OC]: What's going on over there?
JOLEG: Kot-kot.
NEELIX: That's Kadis-kot. Congratulations.
PRISONER [OC]: Down here.
NEELIX: I've been doing some research on the Nygean legal system. You were right about the Benkarans receiving harsher sentences. I saw the statistics.
JOLEG: The statistics won't save me.
NEELIX: I noticed some people convicted of murder, even terrible premeditated murders, weren't executed. Some aren't punished at all. But you were sentenced to death.
JOLEG: That's what the family wants.
NEELIX: The family?
JOLEG: After you're convicted, the family of the victim sentences you.
NEELIX: Well, shouldn't you be sentenced by someone less partial, like a judge?
JOLEG: Vekto valek k'vadim. It's ancient Nygean. It means Favour The Victims. What if I stole your game board? What right would a judge have to assign value to your loss? To him, it's just a game board, but to you it might be a priceless family possession. And what if I murdered your child?
NEELIX: I think I get your point.
JOLEG: Vekto valek k'vadim. It's the basis for the Nygean legal system.
NEELIX: What about the criminals that didn't serve any sentence at all?
JOLEG: Some people prefer restitution to revenge. If a defendant is wealthy enough, he can negotiate a settlement with the victim's family.
NEELIX: Oh, that doesn't seem fair.
JOLEG: It's perfectly fair, unless you're destitute.
NEELIX: Maybe I can talk to the captain about finding a way to compensate your victims.
JOLEG: I'm grateful. But it would imply I'm guilty. I wouldn't want that.
NEELIX: There must be something I can do.
JOLEG: You can transmit a letter to my brother. I'd like to let him know what's happened to me.
NEELIX: I'll get a PADD.

[Sickbay]

(Seven enters with a security guard, who lets her through the forcefield.)
SEVEN: I thought you might find this interesting.
(She gives Iko a PADD and leaves him.)
IKO: What is it?
SEVEN: It's an Astrometrics log. It contains data on various star formations.
IKO: It's just words and numbers. I'd rather look at the stars.
SEVEN: I'll bring you a star chart after my next shift.
IKO: What's the metal above your eye?
SEVEN: It's a cybernetic implant.
IKO: Where did you get it?
SEVEN: It was installed by the Borg.
IKO: It must have hurt.
SEVEN: I don't recall.
IKO: I hurt people. I deserve to die.
(The EMH comes out of the medical lab.)
EMH: Seven? I found something.

[Medical lab]

(Cerebral scan 1028)
EMH: This is a scan depicting a healthy Nygean brain. This node is analogous to the human pineal gland. In addition to controlling behavioural impulses, it regulates decision making. You might say it's the physiological equivalent of a conscience.
SEVEN: Normally, the node connects to the rest of the brain through a series of neural pathways.
EMH: Now look at this scan of Iko's node before we applied the nanoprobes. It's detached.
JANEWAY: Did that happen when he was assaulted?
EMH: No, I believe it's congenital. A birth defect.
SEVEN: Without the node, Iko would have been prone to violence and sociopathic behaviour all his life.
EMH: When I used Seven's nanoprobes to treat the injuries from the assault, it seems they inadvertently repaired the defect as well.
JANEWAY: You've activated his conscience. Well, that would explain why he's suddenly experiencing guilt.
EMH: There's more to it than that. I believe he's become capable of controlling his violent impulses.
JANEWAY: Capable maybe, but how do you know he will?
EMH: Even the thought of violence makes him ill now. In my opinion, he's no longer a threat to anyone.
SEVEN: By some definitions, Captain, he's not the same man who committed the murder.

[Briefing room]

YEDIQ: Are you suggesting we release him?
EMH: Of course not. But at the very least his case should be re-examined.
YEDIQ: Because he's sorry.
SEVEN: There's new medical evidence to be considered.
YEDIQ: None of it changes the fact that he killed a man.
SEVEN: He was suffering from a neurological defect. He couldn't control his behaviour.
EMH: If Iko had been diagnosed and treated, he never would have committed that crime. In a matter of speaking, he's a victim of his own biology.
YEDIQ: So Iko is the victim now?
JANEWAY: No one's denying that he committed a terrible crime. But as a result of the Doctor's treatments he's undergone a fundamental change. Killing him won't accomplish anything.
YEDIQ: That's not your decision to make.
SEVEN: Nor is it yours.
YEDIQ: He's obviously deceiving you somehow.
JANEWAY: Listen, we could debate this all day but the fact is, our personal opinions are irrelevant. All that matters is Nygean law.
TUVOK: Does Iko have a legal means of appeal at his disposal?
YEDIQ: In accordance with Nygean penal code, a capital defendant has a right to appeal his sentence to the family of his victims.
JANEWAY: Then I'd like you to help Commander Tuvok draft an appeal and submit it to the proper authorities.

[Sickbay]

IKO: Take back the appeal.
SEVEN: You'd rather die because you think it'll relieve your pain.
IKO: Death is what I deserve. You say I've changed, but I look at these hands every day and I see them squeezing that man's throat. And I hear the sounds he made. I'm disgusting.
SEVEN: Do you think I'm disgusting?
IKO: You've been nothing but kind to me.
SEVEN: You asked me earlier if it hurt when my occipital implant was installed. I told you I didn't remember. But the truth is, it was one of the most painful experiences of my life.
IKO: Why did you lie?
SEVEN: It's difficult for me to talk about, because I forced others to undergo the same procedure.
IKO: Why?
SEVEN: I was compelled to do so by the Borg Collective. I wasn't in control of my actions, just as you weren't in control when you took a life. My nanoprobes have given you control. You're a different person now. You don't deserve to be executed.
(Iko pushes against the forcefield.)
IKO: I want to go back to my cell.
SEVEN: You're free to remain here.
IKO: Am I still sick?
SEVEN: No, but
IKO: Then I don't want special treatment.

[Cargo Bay one]

(Mealtime. Iko is back in his cell.)
NEELIX: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. You must be hungry. Here you go.
IKO: Give it to him.
(A prisoner across the gangway, probably Egrid.)
NEELIX: He's already had his dinner.
IKO: Please.
NEELIX: All right.

[Ready room]

SEVEN: You wanted to see me.
JANEWAY: We just received a response from the Nygeans. The family has refused to consider the appeal.
SEVEN: But the medical evidence
JANEWAY: They won't look at it.
YEDIQ: The family found the request insulting.
SEVEN: Your government could insist that they review it.
YEDIQ: We have laws that protect victims from emotional distress.
SEVEN: In that case, we should grant Iko asylum aboard Voyager.
YEDIQ: You agreed to work within the confines of our legal system.
SEVEN: Your system is flawed.
JANEWAY: That's enough, Seven. I assure you, we'll abide by the family's decision. Now I need a moment alone with Seven, if you don't mind.
(Yediq leaves.)
JANEWAY: We did everything we could to help him.
SEVEN: We have to do more.
JANEWAY: You barely know this man. Why are you so passionate about helping him?
SEVEN: I want to give him the same opportunity you gave me. When you severed my link to the Collective, you changed who I was. You made it possible for me to reclaim my humanity. Because of my nanoprobes, Iko has undergone a similar change. He should be given the chance to atone for his crimes.
JANEWAY: Atonement. Is that what this is about?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: For him, or for you?
SEVEN: I don't know what you mean.
JANEWAY: I think part of you still feels responsible for the violent acts you committed when you were a Borg.
SEVEN: You're mistaken.
JANEWAY: Am I? Maybe you believe if Iko is found not guilty, somehow you won't be guilty either. You said it yourself. You've reclaimed your humanity. It's time you stopped blaming yourself for the crimes of the Collective.
(Whumph!)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: An alien vessel just dropped out of warp and opened fire.
(The forcefields on the cells flicker.)
KIM: We've lost power on decks eight through ten.
JANEWAY: The cargo bay.
(Tuvok leaves) 

[Cargo Bay one]

(The forcefields fail and some prisoners overpower the guards.)
PRISONER: Follow me. Let's storm the bridge.
(Iko stays in his cell.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Shields down to sixty percent.
KIM: Still no response to hails.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Target their weapons.
(The Nygeans shoot one of the prisoners in a corridor.)
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to bridge. The attacking ship is attempting to transport one of the prisoners.
KIM: They're trying to lock on to all five Benkaran life signs.
JANEWAY: Target their transporter array.
CHAKOTAY: Direct hit. They're retreating.
PARIS: Pursuit course?
JANEWAY: No. We have more immediate problems. Bridge to Tuvok. What's your status?

[Corridor]

TUVOK: We've neutralised two of the prisoners.

[Bridge]

KIM: Someone's trying to get into the shuttlebay.
JANEWAY: Lock them out.

[Outside the Shuttlebay]

(A prisoner is using a phaser rifle to blast their way in.)
JOLEG: Again.
(Yediq shoots him.)
YEDIQ: Stand back.
(A rifle is pressed against his neck.)
PRISONER: Don't move.
(Yediq is disarmed and taken hostage. Tuvok arrives.)
JOLEG: You have five minutes to get us a shuttle.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Lock on to Yediq's signature and beam him to
JANEWAY [OC]: Transporters are offline. We need at least ten minutes to get them up and running.

[Cargo Bay one]

JOLEG: Seal it.
(A prisoner welds the doors shut with his rifle.)
YEDIQ: You're not getting off this ship.
JOLEG: Then I suppose I should kill you right now.
IKO: Don't! He's mine. You saw how they beat me.
(Joleg gives Iko the phaser.)
YEDIQ: I knew it was a trick. I knew you hadn't changed.
(Joleg laughs. Iko gives Yediq the phaser and he stuns the other prisoners. But he cannot shoot Iko.)

Captain's log, supplemental. Warden Yediq has used his influence to convince the Nygean family to hear Iko's appeal for leniency.

[Bridge]

(The family are on the viewscreen.)
IKO: I won't beg for my life. It belongs to you. I only want you to understand what's happened to me. I'm a different person now. A better person. This crew has helped me to see that. If my death helps you find peace, I can accept it. But if you let me live, I will never hurt anyone again. Whatever you decide, please know how sorry I am for what I took from you.

[Cargo Bay one]

(The cell forcefields are working again.)
JOLEG: Are we playing Kadis-kot later?
NEELIX: Sorry.
JOLEG: Afraid I'll beat you again?
NEELIX: I tried to help you and you took advantage of me.
JOLEG: What do you mean?
NEELIX: The note we sent your brother. He traced the transmission to Voyager. He's the one who attacked us.
JOLEG: Neelix, I swear I had no idea he would do that. You have to believe me.
NEELIX: I read Yediq's security report. You threatened to kill him.
JOLEG: I can't eat this.
NEELIX: Why not?
JOLEG: I'm sick.
NEELIX: You look fine to me.
JOLEG: No, I must have the same condition Iko had. If your Doctor cures me, I can make an appeal for my life, too.
(Neelix walks away.)

[Astrometrics lab]

IKO: She's beautiful, isn't she.
SEVEN: Onella the Mother.
IKO: And there's Paedos, still watching over her. It was kind of Captain Janeway to let you bring me here.
SEVEN: If your appeal is successful you'll be able to go wherever you want.
IKO: I hope you're right.
SEVEN: If I am, where will you go?
IKO: I don't know.
SEVEN: If you'd like, I could ask Captain Janeway to consider letting you stay here.
IKO: I'm not a scientist. I don't think I'd be much help to anyone.
SEVEN: There are other ways to be useful. I'm sure we could think of something.
IKO: I'd like that.
(Janeway and Yediq enter with a guard.)
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. The family has denied your appeal.
YEDIQ: We're due to rendezvous with a transport ship in a few hours. I need to return you to your cell.
(Iko puts his hand on Seven's shoulder.)
IKO: You were the first person who wasn't afraid to look me in the eye. That's how I'd like to remember you.
(Seven turns and looks at him. Iko leaves with Yediq and the guard. After a moment, Janeway leaves too. She returns some time later.)
JANEWAY: I just finished looking over your warp core analysis.
SEVEN: And?
JANEWAY: I'm impressed. It usually takes a few days to finish one of these. B'Elanna tells me you did it in twenty two hours.
SEVEN: I haven't felt the need to regenerate.
JANEWAY: Everyone grieves in their own way. If you want to talk, you know where to find me.
SEVEN: It's unfair.
JANEWAY: I think so too, Seven. But we have to try not to judge their system.
SEVEN: That's not what I meant. Iko was executed for taking a single life. As a drone I took thousands, but I was never punished.
JANEWAY: You lost twenty years of your life to the Borg. I'd say that's punishment enough.


S7 E14
Prophecy
Stardate: 54529.8
Original Airdate: 7 February 2001

[Bridge]
(Voyager is cruising when it is hit by weapons fire.)
JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: A ship just decloaked off our port stern.
JANEWAY: Can you identify them?
KIM: They re-cloaked.
TUVOK: That disruptor blast had a Klingon signature.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Hail them.
TUVOK: No response. Port shields are down to fifty percent.
(We get a glimpse of a vessel usually seen in the Original Series.)
KIM: They've re-cloaked again. Tetryon readings indicate it's a D-Seven Class cruiser.
PARIS: D-Seven? They were retired decades ago.
TUVOK: If their technology is antiquated
CHAKOTAY: Perhaps a metaphasic scan might be able to penetrate their cloak.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Initiate a metaphasic sweep.
SEVEN: I've detected a vessel. Transferring the trajectory to tactical.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I have them.
JANEWAY: Fire phasers.

[Klingon Bridge]

MORAK: Our cloak has failed.
KOHLAR: Divert emergency power to shields.
MORAK: Forward emitters are offline. The Federation ship is hailing again.
KOHLAR: Answer them.
T'GRETH: Captain!
KOHLAR: It may give us more time to get the cloak back on online. Visual.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. Stand down.
KOHLAR: We will not surrender to sworn enemies

[Bridge]

KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: Of the Klingon Empire.
JANEWAY: I think there's been a misunderstanding. The Empire signed a peace treaty with the Federation more than eighty years ago. If I'm not mistaken, it's still in effect.

[Klingon Bridge]

KOHLAR: You're lying.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I'm not lying. But even if I were your ship is no match for mine. I suggest we discuss this.
KOHLAR: What is there to talk about?

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: The treaty, for one thing. I'll give you access to our database show you I'm telling the truth.
KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: Databases can be falsified.
JANEWAY: I have a Klingon serving aboard this ship.
KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: Impossible.
JANEWAY: She's my Chief Engineer.
KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: I will meet this Chief Engineer.
JANEWAY: We'd be honoured to have you as our guest.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: You're safe here. You have my word.
KOHLAR: Forgive me if I don't find the word of a human very reassuring.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know what you're doing in the Delta Quadrant.
KOHLAR: I'm not answering any questions until I see the Klingon.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Captain Kohlar. Lieutenant Torres, our Chief Engineer.
KOHLAR: You're with child.
TORRES: That's what the Doctor tells me.
KOHLAR: Did you conceive during the holy month of Nay'Poq?
TORRES: I have no idea.
KOHLAR: It would have been fourteen or fifteen weeks ago.
TORRES: That sounds about right, not that it's any of your business.
KOHLAR: I must return to my ship.
TUVOK: Aren't you interested in learning about the Treaty?
CHAKOTAY: Here's a copy of the Khitomer Accords.
KOHLAR: I must return to my vessel.
JANEWAY: Not without your assurance that you won't fire on my ship again.
KOHLAR: You have my word.
JANEWAY: Escort Captain Kohlar back to the transporter room.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
(Kohlar, Tuvok and Ayala leave.)
TORRES: What the hell was that about?

[Klingon ship]

KOHLAR: It's the truth.
T'GRETH?: How can you be certain?
KOHLAR: The scrolls say, you will find me after two warring houses make peace. Our people and the Federation, our greatest enem,y are at peace.
T'GRETH: So the humans claim. These Accords may be a deception.
KOHLAR: The other signs are present. You will know me before I know the world.
MORAK : The child is unborn. It does not know the world.
KOHLAR: You interpret the scrolls well.
T'GRETH: We must verify the evidence.
KOHLAR: Your scepticism darkens my heart, T'Greth. What evidence did our ancestors have when they began this journey? Nothing but their faith. Tell the others to prepare. The Day of Separation has arrived.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, the Klingon ship. Its core is breaching.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Hail them.
KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: I salute you, Captain. You did more damage to our vessel than my engineer thought.
JANEWAY: We can send over a team to help you establish a containment field.
KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: There isn't time.
KIM: He's right. Their core is going to breach in less than thirty seconds.
KOHLAR [on viewscreen]: I'm requesting emergency transport.
TUVOK: Captain. Their crew complement is two hundred and four.
JANEWAY: Erect forcefields around the shuttlebay. Transport them there. Tell your crew to stand by for evacuation.
KIM: Ten seconds.
CHAKOTAY: If we're still too close when their core breaches
JANEWAY: Go to warp as soon as their crew is aboard.
KIM: Five, four, three.
TUVOK: We have them.
(The antique cruiser goes KaBOOM! The shuttlebay is full of chattering Klingons.)

[Ready room]

KOHLAR: You spared us a dishonourable death.
TUVOK: Sensor logs indicate that the containment failure was not caused by our weapons.
JANEWAY: You activated a self-destruct sequence.
KOHLAR: It was the only way to get us aboard Voyager.
JANEWAY: Why was that so important?
KOHLAR: It's our sacred duty to be here.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
KOHLAR: More than a hundred years ago, my great-grandfather was part of a sect which believed the Empire had lost its way. They discovered a sacred text. It told them to embark on a journey to a distant region of the galaxy.
JANEWAY: You've been travelling for four generations?
KOHLAR: My people have always known the voyage would be long and difficult, but the scrolls said we would be rewarded.
JANEWAY: How?
KOHLAR: We would find the Kuvah'Magh, the saviour of our people. The one who will lead us to a new empire. The scrolls instruct us to follow her wherever she goes.
JANEWAY: What does any of this have to do with Voyager?
KOHLAR: I believe the Kuvah'Magh is the unborn child of B'Elanna Torres.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: You're joking.
JANEWAY: They take their beliefs very seriously.
PARIS: Seriously enough to destroy their own ship?
KIM: Couldn't they have just followed us?
JANEWAY: Apparently, their sacred text told them to cast off the old ways as soon as they found this Kuvah'Magh.
TUVOK: They saw their vessel as the last vestige of the corrupt Empire.
PARIS: I was hoping our daughter would be special, but I never dreamed she'd turn out to be the Klingon messiah.
TORRES: This isn't funny. They might be dangerous. I mean, what if they want to hurt the baby?
CHAKOTAY: To them, your baby's sacred. It's unlikely they would do anything to harm her.
TUVOK: Two hundred Klingons pose a significant security threat. I suggest we keep them confined to the shuttlebay until we can find a suitable home for them.
NEELIX: There are women and children down there. We can't just lock them up.
JANEWAY: I agree.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Assign extra security to every deck and make sure the Klingons know and abide by the rules.
TUVOK: The bridge will have to be off limits. Engineering as well.
JANEWAY: Keep them out of all restricted areas.
TUVOK: Despite their reverence for Lieutenant Torres, she should be assigned a twenty four hour security detail.
TORRES: Just what I need.
KIM: Where are they going to sleep?
NEELIX: We'll double up in quarters. I'll ask for volunteers.
JANEWAY: I know this isn't going to be easy, but until we can find another place for them, we should do our best to make them feel comfortable. Dismissed.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Captain, you must try the gagh.
JANEWAY: I'll pass, thank you. But I'm glad to see you're getting into the spirit of things.
NEELIX: Well, I've been studying the Klingon database. They're a fascinating people, very robust. And they certainly seem to appreciate my culinary skills.
JANEWAY: Looks like everything's running smoothly.
NEELIX: Ah, not quite everything. some of the Starfleet people have been complaining about the smell. Personally, I find it appealing. A kind of a musky aroma.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can adjust the environmental controls to filter out the musk.
(A Klingon woman is starting an argument.)
CH'REGA: Thief! Touch my food again and I'll kill you.
KIM: Okay, everybody relax.
CH'REGA: He took gagh from my plate.
NEELIX: If you don't mind, Ensign, I've been studying Klingon etiquette. You shouldn't quarrel over food. Save your strength for battle, to fight those who would challenge you.
(Neelix gets thrown to the deck.)
KIM: Take it easy.
(Kim manhandles Ch'Rega.)
KIM: That's enough!
CH'REGA: You have a fiery spirit. You will make a worthy mate.

[Tuvok's quarters]

NEELIX: What a day. I never met a more ravenous group in my life. I must have served over three hundred meals.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, may I ask what you're doing here?
NEELIX: We're bunkmates.
TUVOK: There must be some mistake.
NEELIX: No, there's no mistake. I gave up my quarters to a Klingon family. By the time I checked with Commander Chakotay, you were the only one who hadn't been paired up.
TUVOK: You should have consulted me.
NEELIX: We're such close friends, I knew you wouldn't mind.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, as much as I enjoy your company, I prefer solitude in my own quarters.
NEELIX: You don't really want me to go back there and tell that family to get out, do you? Good. Because I promise you we're going to have fun, Mister Vulcan. I learned some Klingon drinking songs. I'll teach them to you. (sings) 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ.

[Engineering]

PARIS [OC]: Paris to Torres.
TORRES: I'm almost finished.
PARIS [OC]: You said that an hour ago.
TORRES: I'll be there in a minute, I promise. Torres out. Keep an eye on the replicators, they've already gone down once today. 

[Corridor]

KLINGONS: It's her.
(Torres retreats into engineering.)

[Torres-Paris' quarters]

(Torres beams in.)
PARIS: When you said be there in a minute, you weren't kidding.
TORRES: A group of Klingons ambushed me outside of Engineering. I decided transporting myself would be easier than running the gauntlet. I'm starting to feel like a prisoner.
PARIS: Well, at least you have a handsome cellmate.
TORRES: How long do you think they're going to be on board?
PARIS: I thought you'd be glad to have other Klingons around. You've always told me how uncomfortable it is being the only one.
TORRES: I guess I should be careful what I wish for.
PARIS: Maybe you should talk to some of them. Give them a chance.
(Doorbell)
PARIS: Come in.
(Janeway enters.)
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to bother you, but I need your help. Ten of the Klingons have started a hunger strike. They say they won't eat until you agree to meet with their Council of Elders.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
JANEWAY: Their faith is obviously very important to them.
TORRES: They think I'm something I'm not.
JANEWAY: Just talk to them. Hear what they have to say.
PARIS: We could be with these people for a while. You can't avoid them forever.
TORRES: I can try.
PARIS: If it'll make you feel any better, I'll go with you.

[Cargo bay]

(Torres and Paris enter.)
KLINGONS: (chanting) Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh.
KOHLAR: You honour us with your presence.
T'GRETH: Look at her ridges. Morak was right. Your blood is not pure.
TORRES: No, my father was human.
T'GRETH: Couldn't you see this for yourself?
KOHLAR: Yes, but
T'GRETH: Why didn't you tell us?
KOHLAR: It wasn't important.
T'GRETH: Not important? We destroyed our ship because you said she was the mother of the Kuvah'Magh.
KOHLAR: Show me where it's written that the Kuvah'Magh must have pure Klingon blood.
T'GRETH: The Prophecy wouldn't lead us to a mongrel child.
PARIS: Hey, take it easy.
T'GRETH: Who are you?
PARIS: The father of that mongrel child.
T'GRETH: More human blood. Your Kuvah'Magh isn't even half-Klingon.
KOHLAR: I've spent my life interpreting the scroll,s and I say that all the signs of the Prophecy are here.
T'GRETH: Liar. You've led us to a false saviour.

[Corridor]

TORRES: I told you this was a mistake.
KOHLAR: Lieutenant, I need your help.
TORRES: Any more help from me and you're going to have a holy war on your hands.
KOHLAR: That's what I'm trying to prevent.

[Briefing room]

TORRES: My baby's just a baby. She's not a saviour.
KOHLAR: Perhaps you're right. But we must convince my people that she is.
JANEWAY: Why?
KOHLAR: We've travelled more than thirty thousand light years in search of this saviour, and in more than one hundred years we've found nothing except hardship and isolation. When I saw Lieutenant Torres, that she was with child, I didn't know if I was looking at the mother of the Kuvah'Magh or not. But I did know I was looking at an opportunity to end this wasteful journey.
PARIS: Then you don't believe in the Prophecy?
KOHLAR: What I believe is that my people have suffered enough. If they accept your child as the Kuvah'Magh you'll hold great influence over them. We can find a suitable planet. You can tell them it's their new home and they'll follow you there.
TORRES: I'm not going to lie to them.
KOHLAR: What's the alternative? My people staying aboard your ship draining your resources?
JANEWAY: I agree with Lieutenant Torres. I'm not comfortable deceiving your people.
KOHLAR: Perhaps you won't have to lie to them to convince them.
TORRES: What are you suggesting?
KOHLAR: If you study the scrolls with me, we may be able to interpret them in way that appears consistent with the events of your life. Then we'll bring those consistencies to the attention of the Council.
PARIS: So you just want to stretch the truth a little.
KOHLAR: It is possible that the sacred scrolls were scrawled by a madman in a cave. Or perhaps they really were divinely inspired. Either way, they've guided us for over a century. If my people start to believe that the sacred scrolls have led them astray, there may be violence.
JANEWAY: Is that a threat?
KOHLAR: Merely a fact. You're doing everything you can to get your people home, Captain. That's all I'm doing for mine.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]

TORRES: It says the Kuvah'Magh will be descended from a noble house. I don't come from one and I'm pretty sure my husband doesn't, either.
KOHLAR: We all have nobility in our blood if we go back far enough.
TORRES: So these scrolls can mean anything you want them to.
KOHLAR: It is written that the mother of the Kuvah'Magh would be an off-worlder. Weren't you born on a Federation colony?
TORRES: A lot of Klingons are born off-world.
KOHLAR: It also says that you would have lived a life of solitude, and endured many hardships. That's accurate, isn't it?
TORRES: According to this, I'm supposed to have won a glorious victory against an army of ten thousand warriors.
KOHLAR: Haven't you?
TORRES: We haven't even encountered ten thousand warriors. Unless you include the Borg.
KOHLAR: Did you help destroy one of their vessels?
TORRES: I suppose.
KOHLAR: Couldn't that have been your glorious victory?
TORRES: I guess so.
KOHLAR: Where are the images of Kahless? Where is your family crest?
TORRES: They clashed with the carpet.
KOHLAR: Don't you honour any of your people's traditions?
TORRES: Not really.
KOHLAR: There is one tradition we can honour together.
TORRES: What are you doing?
KOHLAR: It's midday. Time to remember the sacrifice of our ancestors. Haven't you made a plea for the dead before?
TORRES: Not since I was a child.
KOHLAR: The dead can't rest in Sto-Vo-Kor if the living don't honour their memory. Perhaps there's someone I can honour on your behalf. Who did you plead for as a child?
TORRES: My grandmother.
KOHLAR: She was called?
TORRES: L'Naan.
KOHLAR: Kahless, we implore you to remember those warriors who have fallen in your name. Lift them out of the Cavern of Despair and reveal yourself to them in all your glory.
TORRES: Right, in all your glory.
KOHLAR: Remember Kolax, son of Amar. Remember Talij, daughter of K'Rene.
TORRES: Remember L'Naan, daughter of Krelik.

[Sickbay]

(Kim enters, holding a cloth to his cheek.)
EMH: What happened to you?
KIM: I cut myself shaving.
EMH: Is that a bite mark?
KIM: One of the Klingons attacked me.
EMH: Did you do something to provoke him?
KIM: Not him, her. And she wasn't provoked. She was aroused.
EMH: Ah. I'm not surprised. I've studied the section on Klingon mating rituals in their cultural database.
KIM: Then maybe you can tell me how to convince a female twice my size that I'm not interested.
EMH: Hmm. You probably can't.
KIM: Great.
EMH: As I understand it, you have two options. Kill her, or mate with her. Since the first option is clearly unacceptable.
(He hands Kim a PADD.)
KIM: What's this?
EMH: Authorisation for you to engage in intimate relations with a member of an alien species. Be sure to get the Captain's approval as well.

Chief Engineer's personal log, stardate 54518.2. I've spent the last two days reviewing the sacred scrolls in preparation for my appearance before the Klingon council. Kohlar also suggested I prepare a few colourful stories to help win them over.

[Mess hall]

TORRES: That's when they beamed aboard the Flyer, weapons firing. Tuvok and Neelix fought valiantly, but there were too many Hirogen. I had to face ten of their fiercest Hunters alone.
PARIS: Is that how you remember it?
TORRES: (underneath conversation) took them down two at a time, but they kept coming.
NEELIX: Exaggeration is part of Klingon custom. She's doing great.
TORRES: I had my phaser shot out of my hand, forcing me to take down the last Hunter in hand-to-hand combat. It was a glorious fight!
KOHLAR: Your ancestors would be honoured.
T'GRETH: You tell a good story, but that's not why you're here. Some say you are the mother of the Kuvah'Magh, the one who will guide us to a new homeworld. Has your unborn child told you where it is?
TORRES: The scrolls say, you will follow in my footsteps before I have made them. Yesterday we changed course toward a planet very much like Kronos. So in a manner of speaking, you are now following my child to a new home.
T'GRETH: You deliver the words we want to hear, but it's Kohlar who gives them to you. Are you his puppet in the bedchamber as well?
PARIS: Watch it. That's my wife you're talking about.
T'GRETH: He speaks. I didn't think you had a tongue.
TORRES: Leave him out of this.
T'GRETH: You see how he hides behind his female? It is also written that the father of the Kuvah'Magh will be an honourable warrior. Would an honourable warrior ever refuse a challenge?
PARIS: I haven't refused any challenge.
T'GRETH: I haven't made one yet. You and I.
(T'Greth stabs a kitchen knife into a table.)
T'GRETH: To the death.
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: Stay out of this.
KLINGON: PetaQ.
(Paris pulls the knife out of the table.)
PARIS: I accept.

[Ready room]

PARIS: What was I supposed to say?
TORRES: How about no?
PARIS: They were all watching. There would have been a riot if I refused.
TORRES: So you're going to get yourself killed ?
PARIS: What makes you so sure I'd lose?
TORRES: Oh, please.
PARIS: Look, I have no intention of fighting anyone to the death, but wasn't the whole point of this to get them to believe that we are the parents of their saviour?
TORRES: Captain, this has gone too far. You've got to put a stop to it.
JANEWAY: I intend to. Mister Tuvok.
(Tuvok escorts Kohlar and T'Greth.)
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I'm afraid Lieutenant Paris had no authority to accept this challenge. There will be no death matches aboard my ship.
T'GRETH: I told you this petaQ was not the true father.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris is perfectly willing to fight you, Mister T'Greth. I'm the one preventing him from doing so.
T'GRETH: The father of the Kuvah'Magh wouldn't let a woman speak for him.
KOHLAR: T'Greth, there is precedent for an honourable compromise. A non-lethal bout, fought with blunted bat'leths. The victory goes to the first warrior to knock his opponent to the ground three times.
T'GRETH: A coward's rules.
KOHLAR: Was the Emperor Mur'Eq a coward? He was the one who instituted these rules to insure that his warriors would kill their enemies and not each other.
JANEWAY: If you agree to these terms I'll allow the match.
T'GRETH: I'll see you on the field of battle.
(T'Greth leaves.)
TUVOK: I assume you have a suitable holodeck training programme for this, Lieutenant?
KOHLAR: He'll be ready. I'll train him myself.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Hi.
(The crewman nods and walks on.)
KIM: Psst! Neelix!  
(Kim comes out of a Jefferies tube.)
NEELIX: Something wrong, Harry?
KIM: Shush. Have you seen her?
NEELIX: Who?
KIM: That Klingon woman. The one I got into a scrape with in the mess hall.
NEELIX: Officer Ch'Rega.
KIM: That's her.
NEELIX: I haven't seen her today.
KIM: She's been following me everywhere.
NEELIX: Why?
KIM: She wants to mate.
NEELIX: Oh! You're a lucky man. She's a fine specimen of Klingon womanhood.
KIM: I guess it's a matter of taste.
(Ch'Rega appears. Kim heads for the Jefferies tube.)
KIM: You never saw me.
NEELIX: Wait, I have a better idea.
(Neelix pushes Kim against the wall.)
KIM: Neelix, what the hell are you doing?
NEELIX: Play along. I'm taking her off your hands. When I say you're limited to two servings of brak't, that's all you get. Do you understand me, Ensign?
KIM: Yes, sir. Whatever you say.
NEELIX: I don't think you do. If I catch you eating more than your share again, I'll cut it out of your belly. (sotto) Run.
(Kim runs, bumping into crewmen.)
KIM: Excuse me.
NEELIX: PetaQ!
(Ch'Rega gazes at Neelix and growls softly.)

[Holodeck - Arena]

(A cavern setting.)
NEELIX: I didn't think you approved of the competition.
EMH: I don't. I'm here in an official capacity.
NEELIX: Well, you do know they're fighting with non-lethal weapons?
EMH: You'd be surprised how much damage a blunt bat'leth can do.
KOHLAR: Warriors, assemble!
(Paris is in Klingon armour. Torres hands him his bat'leth.)
TORRES: Today would be a very bad day to die.
PARIS: I'll try to remember that.
KOHLAR: Let honour guide you. Tagh.
(Paris and T'Greth circle each other.)
T'GRETH: I see fear in your eyes, human.
PARIS: The only Klingon I'm afraid of is my wife after she's worked a double shift.
(They fight. T'Greth disarms Paris at one point, but he scrambles to retrieve  his weapon. They clash blades and Paris dodges the slashes until T'Greth collapses, breathless. The EMH goes to treat the fallen warrior.)
KOHLAR: It's begun.
EMH: What are you talking about?
KOHLAR: He's dying.
EMH: Typically, I'm the one to make that kind of prognosis.
KOHLAR: It's the nehret. It kills all of us who aren't fortunate enough to die in battle.

[Sickbay]

(Cytoplasmic scan 1027)
EMH: It's a retrovirus that destroys the cells by attacking the cytoplasmic membranes.
JANEWAY: Shouldn't our bio-filters have detected it when we transported the Klingons aboard?
EMH: This is an insidious virus. It lies dormant, disguising itself as inert genetic material until it inexplicably activates.
KOHLAR: The nehret always comes without warning.
EMH: I've reviewed my scans of the other Klingons. They're all carriers.
JANEWAY: Why didn't you tell us your people had a disease?
KOHLAR: We've never thought of it as a disease. It's more like old age.
JANEWAY: Is it contagious?
EMH: Only to Klingons. If you'd give us some privacy, I'd like to examine Lieutenant Torres.
JANEWAY: Of course.
(Janeway and Kohlar leave. The EMH does the scan.)
TORRES: The baby too?
EMH: I'm afraid so.
T'GRETH: Why am I here?
EMH: You're ill. You collapsed during the fight.
T'GRETH: The nehret.
TORRES: Yes. Thank you for telling us. Now my baby and I have it too.
EMH: Where do you think you're going?
T'GRETH: To prepare for my journey to Sto-Vo-Kor.
EMH: You should be in Sickbay.
T'GRETH: Can you make me well?
EMH: Not at the moment, but
T'GRETH: Then don't deny me my tradition.

[Cargo bay]

(The Council is sitting around, humming, when T'Greth enters.)
T'GRETH: The child is not the Kuvah'Magh.
MORAK: But the father accepted your challenge. He defeated you.
T'GRETH: I was defeated by the nehret. B'Elanna Torres and her child will fall victim to it as well.
MORAK: Impossible.
T'GRETH: They both carry it. She told me herself.
MORAK: But the scrolls say the Kuvah'Magh is younger than old age.
T'GRETH: And stronger than sickness. She cannot be our saviour. We should resume our search.
MORAK: Kohlar and many of the others won't agree.
T'GRETH: Then we must act alone for the good of our people.
MORAK: How?
T'GRETH: We'll wait for the right moment, and when it comes we'll seize Voyager.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: We've identified two potential colony sites in the southern hemisphere.
KOHLAR: We'll require topographical scans.
SEVEN: I'll prepare them.
T'GRETH: I shouldn't have doubted you. It appears the signs were there all along. I'll join the survey mission.
KOHLAR: You're ill, old friend. You should remain here.
T'GRETH: I want my final days to be spent in honourable pursuits. Don't ask me to die inside these walls.
KOHLAR: We transport in one hour.

[Transporter room]

(Some cargo barrels are transported away.)
MORAK: Your transporters are much more sophisticated than ours.
KIM: I've studied Klingon transport systems. The basic technology isn't all that different.
MORAK: But you were able to beam our entire crew aboard Voyager at one time.
KIM: We usually don't like to do that for safety reasons, but in a pinch we can expand the buffer capacity.
MORAK: These are the targeting scanners?
KIM: Exactly. They work on the same principles as yours.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: You said it was urgent?
EMH: I need to conduct a more detailed bio-scan of your baby.
TORRES: She's not sick, is she?
EMH: No. But I may be on to something.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: I'll be leading the team going to site A, Kohlar will be in charge of the site B team.

[Transporter room]

KIM: Good morning, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Harry.
(Chakotay is knocked unconscious from behind. Harry gets thumped then phasered.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Phaser fire in transporter room one.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Chakotay.
(Tuvok and guards leave)

[Transporter room]

(Teh Starfleet bodies are arranged on the pads and beamed away.)
MORAK: They're on the surface.
T'GRETH: Now lock on to the bridge officers.
MORAK: They've activated a forcefield around deck one.
T'GRETH: Transport the rest of their crew.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, I'm detecting multiple transports. Some of our people are being beamed down to the surface.
JANEWAY: Cut power to the transporters.
PARIS: I can't.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, respond.
PARIS: There's no one in Engineering.

[Transporter room]

T'GRETH: The bridge officers?
MORAK: I still can't get a lock.
T'GRETH: Can you transport us there?
MORAK: I'll try.

[Outside transporter room]

TUVOK: Computer, open the transporter room doors. Security override, Tuvok pi alpha.
(Tuvok shoots Morak, but the others are beamed away.)

[Bridge]

(There is a phaser fight, Starfleet win, with Paris shooting T'Greth.)
T'GRETH: Grant me a warrior's death, I beg of you.
JANEWAY: Sorry. No mercy killings on my bridge. Get our people back.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH wakes T'Greth.)
T'GRETH: Why am I not in Sto-Vo-Kor?
EMH: Because you are healthy as a targ.
T'GRETH: The nehret?
EMH: Gone.
KOHLAR: We have B'Elanna Torres's child to thank for it.
EMH: The foetus has hybrid stem cells. They contain Klingon and human DNA. I used them to synthesise an antivirus.
T'GRETH: The child cured me?
EMH: Well, I was the one who devised the treatment
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Yes, of course. The child cured you.
KOHLAR: The Kuvah'Magh has healed all of us. She truly is our saviour.

Captain's log, stardate 54529.8. While we're helping the Klingons into their new home, life aboard Voyager is gradually returning to normal.

[Outside Tuvok's quarters]

TUVOK: Computer, open this door.
COMPUTER: Access to these quarters has been restricted.
TUVOK: On whose authority?
COMPUTER: Neelix.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, open this door.
NEELIX [OC]: I'll be there in a minute, Commander. That's, that's my boot.
TUVOK: Computer, security override. Authorisation: Tuvok pi
(The door opens to reveal a dishevelled Ch'Rega, then a battered and bruised Neelix.)
NEELIX: Goodbye, my little par'machkai.
CH'REGA: Goodbye, my fearless warrior.
(They growl at each other, then she leaves.)
NEELIX: I'm really going to miss her.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(The place is a wreck.)
NEELIX: Oh. Don't you worry, Mister Vulcan. I'll have this place shipshape in no time at all.
TUVOK: Just go, Mister Neelix.

[Transporter room]

TORRES: What's this?
KOHLAR: The bat'leth given to me by my great-grandfather. It's for your daughter. I hope someday you'll tell her about us.
TORRES: I will.
KOHLAR: Qapla', B'Elanna Torres.
TORRES: Qapla'.

[Torres - Paris' quarters]

(Torres hangs the bat'leth in a place of honour.)
PARIS: It doesn't seem right just to hang it on the wall.
TORRES: I'm not letting you scratch it up on the holodeck.
PARIS: I'm sure our daughter wouldn't mind lending it to the old man every now and then. You know, this is one special kid we're going to have.
TORRES: You're just figuring that out?
PARIS: I was hoping for an artist, or maybe a musician, but she's already the saviour of an entire race.
TORRES: You don't really believe that.
PARIS: I don't know. There are a lot of coincidences to explain. I mean, what were the odds that they'd run into the one ship in the whole quadrant with a Klingon aboard?
TORRES: Probably about the same odds that you and I would get married.
PARIS: Maybe we should name her Kuvah'Magh, just to be safe.
TORRES: Put it on the list.


S7 E15
The Void
Stardate: 54553.4
Original Airdate: 14 February 2001

[Mess hall]
(A formal dinner party is in progress.)
NEELIX: For our third course, luhvian quail in truffle sauce, served with roasted chadre kab.
JANEWAY: My compliments to the chef.
ALL: Hear, hear.
SEVEN: Thank you, Captain.
TORRES: Cream of leola soup, fettran risotto, luhvian quail. It just keeps getting better.
JANEWAY: I knew you'd been expanding your palate, but I didn't realise you'd become a gourmet cook.
SEVEN: Preparing meals myself is the best way to ensure quality.
NEELIX: I suppose I should be insulted but everything is so delicious I may just have to admit defeat and hang up my apron.
PARIS: No, that'd be a real tragedy, Neelix.
NEELIX: Pinot noir, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I'll have another glass of the Chardonnay.
SEVEN: Each course has been paired with a specific wine. Substitutions are not recommended.
CHAKOTAY: The Pinot noir sounds perfect.
PARIS: Is there any salt?
SEVEN: Additional seasoning is not required.
PARIS: I'm sorry, I just
SEVEN: If the quail hasn't been prepared to your satisfaction, I could replicate something more to your liking. A peanut butter and jelly sandwich, perhaps.
PARIS: Actually, it's delicious just the way it is.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY: Captain to the bridge. Report.
TUVOK [OC]: We're being

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Pulled off course.
JANEWAY [OC]: How?
TUVOK: I'm not certain. It appears to be some kind of graviton surge.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]

KIM: We've rerouted all available power to the thrusters but we can't break free.
JANEWAY: Try reversing the shield polarity.
TUVOK: No effect.
(Voyager heads into the eye of a space-storm.)

[Mess hall]

(There is a massive lurch. Tables overturn and glassware goes flying. Everyone picks themselves up from the deck.)
NEELIX: What happened to the stars?
(A ship opens fire on them.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shields at sixty five percent.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Return fire. Can you identify them?
CHAKOTAY: Their weapon signature is Vaadwaur, but the ship has technology from several different species.
SEVEN: There's another vessel approaching. It's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Evasive pattern beta six.
(The newcomer attacks the first ship.)
PARIS: Maybe we've got an ally?
TUVOK: The Vaadwaur ship is retreating.
JANEWAY: Hail the second ship.
KIM: No response.
(A console explodes.)
PARIS: I stand corrected.
TUVOK: They've penetrated our aft shields.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to the auxiliary emitters and return fire.
(Containers disappear from a cargo bay, plants from Airponics, a console and tool box from Engineering.)
CHAKOTAY: They've transported material off decks five, seven and eight.
JANEWAY: Disable their engines.
(But the ship jumps to warp.)
JANEWAY: Follow them.
PARIS: Navigational sensors are malfunctioning. It's something to do with this environment.
JANEWAY: I want a full damage report and an inventory of everything that was taken off this ship. And I want to know where we are.
CHAKOTAY: They got more than ninety percent of our food stores, including almost everything in the Airponics bay. They also got a computer console from Engineering and they emptied three of our deuterium tanks.
PARIS: Why would anyone steal deuterium? You can find it anywhere.
SEVEN: Apparently not here. I'm not detecting any gases, stellar bodies, or matter of any kind.
JANEWAY: Except for the ships that attacked us. Scan for other vessels. I want to know how many we're dealing with.
TUVOK: There are more than one hundred fifty ships within scanning range. But I'm only detecting lifesigns on twenty nine of them.
KIM: Captain, there's another vessel approaching at high impulse.
PARIS: Quite a welcoming committee they've got here.
JANEWAY: What's the status of our shields?
TUVOK: They're at twenty eight percent.
JANEWAY: That'll have to do. Charge weapons.
KIM: Captain, this one wants to talk.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: General Valen. Welcome to the Void.
JANEWAY: You're the first ship we've seen here that hasn't tried to fire on us. But in case you change your mind, we're prepared to defend ourselves.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: I know. I've been observing you on sensors. The way you fought those ships was impressive. Most vessels don't survive the first few minutes.
JANEWAY: I'd appreciate any information you could give us about where we are.

[Briefing room]

VALEN: The anomaly's a closed structure, encased by an inert layer of subspace. Matter and energy can't penetrate it.
JANEWAY: Our ships certainly penetrated it when we were pulled in.
VALEN: By the funnels. But they only pull matter in one direction. Into the void.
TUVOK: Have you explored the entire anomaly?
VALEN: There's nothing to explore, but it's big. We've calculated the outer circumference at approximately nine light years, but we've never been able to breech it.
PARIS: How long have you been here?
VALEN: More than five years.
JANEWAY: There must be a way to escape.
VALEN: New arrivals are always thinking about escape.
JANEWAY: We have a sophisticated starship. Maybe if we work together we can find a way out.
VALEN: You're being naive. No one ever gets out.
SEVEN: We may be able to devise a new approach.
VALEN: Many have tried. All they did was waste resources that could have kept them alive longer. Don't be foolish. I can help you.
CHAKOTAY: How?
VALEN: The only source of food and energy in the Void comes from new ships that are drawn in. If you want to survive here, you'll have to compete for their resources.
JANEWAY: And I suppose you can help us do that?
VALEN: I have tactical data on some of the more dangerous predators.
JANEWAY: But you want something in return.
VALEN: My scans show you have photon torpedoes.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, we don't trade weapons.
VALEN: Why not?
JANEWAY: Because we have no way of knowing what they'll be used for. Plundering innocent ships, for example.
VALEN: Wait a few weeks until your resources start to run out. Morality won't keep your life support systems running.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, General. There are some compromises I won't make.
VALEN: Not yet.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Report, Lieutenant.
TORRES: We're using power at almost ten times the usual rate.
CHAKOTAY: While we're standing still?
TORRES: The same graviton forces that pulled us into the anomaly seem to be draining the warp core. At this rate, our deuterium will be gone in about ten days.
JANEWAY: Shut down all non-essential systems.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
JANEWAY: To find a way out of here.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Using fractal algorithms with the Borg sensors I believe I can predict where and when these funnels will occur.
PARIS: Well, that's impressive, but how does it help us?
SEVEN: The funnels originate inside the anomaly, creating massive graviton forces before they erupt. If we were to enter one of the funnels just as that happened we might be able to use those forces to propel us into normal space.
JANEWAY: Not without compromising structural integrity.
TUVOK: I might be able to reinforce the shields to compensate.
SEVEN: There's another problem. When the graviton forces reach critical levels, the polarity suddenly reverses, pulling everything near the funnel back into the anomaly.
PARIS: We'd have to jump to warp at exactly the right moment.
SEVEN: We'd need to achieve a velocity of warp eight point two.
PARIS: Question is, will we have enough power?
JANEWAY: At the rate we're losing it, we may only get one shot at this. The sooner we try, the better.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: There's a funnel forming seventy thousand metres off the port bow. Bearing one three zero mark two four.
KIM: Graviton surge in thirty four seconds.
JANEWAY: Full power to shields and structural integrity. Take us in, Mister Paris.
SEVEN: Five seconds. Four, three.
TUVOK: Structural integrity at twenty percent. Ten percent.
PARIS: Fifty thousand kilometres to normal space.
JANEWAY: Prepare to go to warp.
(Consoles go bang, and everyone gets thrown to the deck. They are still in the Void.)
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]

TORRES: The warp core is offline.

[Briefing room]

(In semi-darkness)
JANEWAY: If nothing else, we learned some things that'll help us next time.
PARIS: With all due respect Captain, we don't even have warp drive anymore.
TORRES: I may be able to get it back online, but we still need deuterium to get our basic systems running.
CHAKOTAY: How long will our reserves last?
TORRES: If we shut down life support on all but a few decks, deactivate Astrometrics, turbolifts, ration replicator use, maybe a week.
NEELIX: I used to make a living scavenging for supplies. Let me take one of the shuttles. I might be able to find deuterium on one of those abandoned ships.
TUVOK: The shuttle would be too easy a target.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, Neelix, but we're safer if we stay together.
SEVEN: The shuttles may be useful in another capacity.
JANEWAY: We could use their warp cores to augment power on Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: We're still going to need more deuterium.
JANEWAY: Let's track down the ship that raided us and get back what they stole.
TUVOK: We should do it quickly. I've detected a number of vessels monitoring us.
PARIS: The vultures are circling.
JANEWAY: Vultures eat the dead, Mister Paris. We're not dead yet.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The vessel's in visual range.
JANEWAY: Shields. On screen.
(The ship is adrift and apparently on fire. Neat trick in a vacuum.)
KIM: Looks like somebody got to them before we did.
TUVOK: No lifesigns.
JANEWAY: Scan for ion trails. Whoever did this probably has our deuterium.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Is there anything left aboard that ship worth salvaging?
KIM: Their technology and supplies have been picked clean.
SEVEN: Not everything of value has been taken. The warp core has been removed, but the casing that protected it is intact. It's composed of tricesium.
KIM: We can convert it into a power source.
JANEWAY: Every little bit helps. Lock onto the core casing and beam it to the cargo bay.

[Cargo bay]

(With only wrist beacons for illumination.)
SEVEN: With the additional power we could reactivate the Astrometrics lab.
TORRES: I can think of some better uses.
SEVEN: For example?
TORRES: Oh, I don't know. Making sure there's air to breathe. This must be where they cut through the casing to remove the core.
SEVEN: Crude but effective.
TORRES: Something's in there.
SEVEN: Identify yourself.
(A biped scuttles away.)
TORRES: Torres to Security. Intruder alert.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
SEVEN: There.
TORRES: Stay where you are.
SEVEN: He appears to be injured.

[Sickbay]

(Also rather dark. The new alien is eating food with his fingers.)
JANEWAY: How is he?
EMH: His injury doesn't seem serious, but he won't let me close enough to treat him.
JANEWAY: My name's Captain Janeway. You're safe here.
EMH: I've tried communicating with him. He doesn't appear to have any verbal skills.
JANEWAY: Do we know how he got on board?
SEVEN: I believe he was transported along with the core casing.
JANEWAY: We should have picked up his lifesigns.
SEVEN: We're trying to determine why we didn't detect him.
JANEWAY: That vessel he was on had no atmosphere. How did he survive?
EMH: My scans show he can conserve oxygen. He has unusually large lung capacity. And a voracious appetite.
JANEWAY: Do you think that ship was his home?
EMH: Maybe. But we can't send him back. He can't survive without oxygen indefinitely.
JANEWAY: We'll run scans for other members of his species. But until we can find a safe place for him, let's make him as comfortable as possible.
SEVEN: Computer, replicate a portion of nutritional supplements from my daily allotment.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: You found something?
TUVOK: We think we know who has our deuterium.
KIM: It's someone we've already met.

[Bridge]

VALEN [on viewscreen]: I knew I'd see you again, Captain. I expect you've reconsidered my proposal.
JANEWAY: We're not here to trade. We're here to take back what belongs to us.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: I don't know what you mean.
CHAKOTAY: Our scans indicate you've got some of our food, one of our consoles and a large quantity of our deuterium.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: We didn't take any of that from you.
JANEWAY: No. Apparently you killed the crew of another ship and took it from them. We want it back.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: That's not the way things work here.
JANEWAY: Either you give it back, or we'll take it.
PARIS: He's powering his engines.
JANEWAY: Target his shields and fire. Lock onto whatever belongs to us and transport it to the cargo bay.
SEVEN: I'm detecting large quantities of food on his supply deck.
PARIS: Maybe we should take it while we have the chance.
JANEWAY: Is it ours?
SEVEN: No, but our own reserves are running out.
PARIS: Valen wouldn't hesitate to take it from us.
JANEWAY: No, he wouldn't. We've got what's ours. Reverse course.

[Ready room]

(Doorbell.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
(Chakotay and Tuvok enter.)
CHAKOTAY: An updated inventory of our supplies. We got back less than half of what was stolen.
JANEWAY: Doesn't take two of you to deliver a PADD. What's on your mind?
CHAKOTAY: We want to be clear about what our policy's going to be while we're here in the Void.
JANEWAY: You think we should have taken Valen's food.
TUVOK: Logic suggests we may have to be more opportunistic if we intend to survive.
CHAKOTAY: We may not like Valen's tactics, but he and his crew are still alive after five years in here.
JANEWAY: I was thinking about that myself. I thought maybe I could get some guidance from the Federation Charter. I was hoping I'd find a loophole that would allow us to take actions we ordinarily wouldn't take.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
JANEWAY: The Charter's a statement of principles, not a practical document.
CHAKOTAY: No section on how to exist in a Void.
JANEWAY: No. But I've become convinced that we've got to stick to our principles, not abandon them.
CHAKOTAY: Should the crew be ready to die for those principles?
JANEWAY: If the alternative means becoming thieves and killers ourselves, yes. But I'm betting that our principles are going to keep us alive.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: The Federation is based on mutual cooperation. The idea that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Voyager can't survive here alone. But if we form a temporary alliance with other ships, maybe we can pool our resources and escape.
TUVOK: As you've pointed out, the people we've encountered in this void are thieves and killers. Such individuals are hardly ideal allies.
JANEWAY: I agree.
CHAKOTAY: Then who are we going to form an alliance with?
JANEWAY: Anyone who agrees to play by our rules. No killing, no stealing, and no giving up.
TUVOK: Forgive me, Captain, but why would anyone who has survived by killing and stealing suddenly agree to those terms?
JANEWAY: We'll offer to share our food and medical supplies, and defend ships that are attacked by raiders.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, maybe you'd better take another look at that inventory. Our food and power reserves will be gone within a week. If we start giving everything away
JANEWAY: Maybe we'll only survive for two days instead of seven. On the other hand, if we share what we have instead of hoarding it, we might find other people willing to do the same. If we combine our technology, we can find ways of improving our situation, and ultimately get the hell out of this place. We may lose a little weight, gentlemen, but we won't lose who we are.

Captain's log, stardate 54553.4. For the past several days, we've been making every effort to recruit members into an alliance, but it hasn't been easy.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Whenever a new ship gets pulled into the Void they're immediately attacked. Instead of attacking it, you'd have to help defend the new ship.
GARON: And how is that in my interest?
JANEWAY: It would encourage them to join our alliance.
GARON: And if they refuse, then we raid them?
TUVOK: Everyone in the Alliance must agree not to launch unprovoked attacks.
GARON: Then how are we supposed to get supplies?
CHAKOTAY: The idea is to recruit new members, share technology and resources.
JANEWAY: We almost escaped the Void on our own. If we work together, I believe we'll succeed.
GARON: How many ships do you have in this Alliance?
JANEWAY: You'd be the first.
NEELIX: Technically, Captain, that's not correct. I consider myself the first member of the Captain's coalition. Six years ago, I offered her my services and the resources of my ship, and she's never failed to help me when I needed her.
GARON: It's a noble idea, Captain, but good intentions are like deuterium reserves. They tend to get lost in the Void.
JANEWAY: All I ask is that you consider our proposal.
GARON: I will.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, we'd like to offer you food and medical supplies.
GARON: What do you expect in return?
JANEWAY: Nothing. Compliments of the Alliance.
(The aliens leave.)
NEELIX: I tried.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: Captain, there's been a theft.
JANEWAY: What's missing?
SEVEN: My phase compensator. No doubt it was stolen by one of your prospective members.
JANEWAY: It wasn't stolen. I gave it to the Nygeans. They needed it to repair their sensor array.
SEVEN: I presume you obtained something equally valuable in return.
JANEWAY: I think I did. The goodwill of a potential ally.
SEVEN: Did they join?
JANEWAY: Not yet.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I know. It's not exactly the most efficient policy. But then you don't always do what's most efficient either.
SEVEN: I don't know what you're implying.
JANEWAY: You gave up your rations to our guest in Sickbay.
SEVEN: He needed food.
JANEWAY: You're a valuable member of this crew. Your friend in Sickbay is nothing but a drain on resources. What's efficient about wasting food on him? You think I'm being inefficient, Tuvok thinks I'm being illogical. You both could be right. But maybe the best way to get help is to give it. Oh, and Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry I gave away your favourite phase compensator.

[Sickbay]

(Opera music playing, a duet.)
SEVEN: How is he?
EMH: Much better. He seemed to relax when he heard me humming an aria from Rigoletto, so I had the computer play the full orchestral version. Fantome seems to be a music lover.
SEVEN: Fantome?
EMH: After the Phantom of the Opera, a tormented character who was soothed by music.
SEVEN: In six years you haven't chosen a name for yourself, but you've given Fantome one in a few days.
EMH: Choosing the right name for myself is extremely difficult. I'm a complex individual.
SEVEN: And Fantome isn't?
EMH: On the contrary. I believe he's quite intelligent, and his physiology is very sophisticated. Did you know he has the ability to refract his own lifesigns?
SEVEN: That would explain why our sensors didn't detect him.
EMH: I wish we could find a way to communicate with him. I suspect he'd have a lot to tell us.
(Seven stops the playback.)
EMH: We were enjoying that.
SEVEN: Exactly. He may not be able to speak but he can hear.
(She holds up items while creating high and low tones, then puts them down and plays the tones. Fantome picks up the item relating to the tone.)
EMH: He understands.
SEVEN: So it would seem.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix spreads a white tablecloth.)
PARIS: What's the occasion?
NEELIX: Seven's not the only one who knows how to set an elegant table.
TORRES: You have heard there is a food shortage?
NEELIX: That's no reason why you two can't enjoy a romantic dinner. Unfortunately, I can't light this. It would be a waste of oxygen. Still, it is festive.
TORRES: We appreciate the effort.
(Neelix puts a plate of food in front of Paris.)
PARIS: I believe there's been a mistake here, waiter. I didn't order this.
NEELIX: Close your eyes and pretend that it's Seven's fettran risotto.
PARIS: It tastes more like chicken.
TORRES: What's this?
(Torres' plate.)
NEELIX: A preserved olian guava. I had a few left.
TORRES: Neelix.
NEELIX: No arguments. You're eating for two.
TUVOK [OC]: Senior officers report to stations immediately.
PARIS: Sorry, Neelix.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Charge weapons. Shields to full.
PARIS: What's going on?
CHAKOTAY: A funnel just opened. It pulled in a new vessel.
TUVOK: Two warships are approaching it. One of them is Valen's.
(Valen opens fire on the newcomer.)
JANEWAY: Target Valen's weapons, and hail him.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: My fight's not with you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Then stand down.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: This new ship has impressive technology. We can share it.
JANEWAY: I'm not here to divide the spoils.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: Then why are you here?
JANEWAY: To protect the ship you're firing on.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: What are they to you?
JANEWAY: Just some people in a bad situation, like the rest of us.
VALEN [on viewscreen]: Save your speeches. I've got a crew to feed.
CHAKOTAY: He's targeting our shields.
JANEWAY: Take his weapons out. Hail the new ship.
LOQUAR [on viewscreen]: I surrender.
(An Overseer from the Heirarchy.)
JANEWAY: We're here to help you. Can you target the smaller warship?
LOQUAR [on viewscreen]: We're a survey vessel. We're not equipped to fight.
TUVOK: Shields at sixty percent
JANEWAY: Fire torpedoes.
TUVOK: Shields on Valen's lead ship are holding at eighty percent. It appears he's upgraded them since we last met.
JANEWAY: Ours?
TUVOK: Thirty.
PARIS: The smaller ship is outmanoeuvring us.
KIM: We have hull breeches on decks five and six.
JANEWAY: Seal them.
TUVOK: Shields at fifteen percent
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]

TORRES: We're losing containment. At this rate, we'll be dead in the water in less than three minutes.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We should retreat, Captain.
JANEWAY: Not yet.
PARIS: You might want to reconsider. There's another ship approaching.
CHAKOTAY: We can't defend ourselves against three ships.
TUVOK: We may not have to. The third vessel belongs to Mister Garon. He's firing at the other two. Valen's shields are down. The smaller ship is leaking plasma.
PARIS: They're both retreating.
KIM: Garon's hailing.
JANEWAY: Get a weapons lock on him. We've been fooled by unexpected allies before.
GARON [on viewscreen]: Why are you targeting me?
JANEWAY: Because I don't know what your intentions are.
GARON [on viewscreen]: Haven't I just made them clear? I've decided to accept your offer.
JANEWAY: Well, in that case, welcome to the Alliance.

Captain's log, stardate 54562.7. Since Garon and the survey ship became our charter members, finding new allies has gotten a little easier. My latest prospect is Commander Bosaal, whose ship has technology that could help us escape.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Neelix, we have another guest for dinner.
NEELIX: Always room for one more, Captain.
BOSAAL: Who did you raid to get fresh vegetables?
JANEWAY: They're replicated. One of the crews that joined us had technology that tripled our replicator efficiency.
NEELIX: It may not be a gourmet feast, but we can feed five hundred people a day now, using half the power it took us a few days ago.
JANEWAY: Why don't we sit down?

[Corridor]

(The EMH is walking with Fantome.)
TUVOK: Doctor.
EMH: Hello, Commander.
TUVOK: How's your patient?
EMH: Technically, he's not a patient anymore, but it's taken me this long to coax him out of Sickbay. He's quite shy.
(The EMH plays notes on a PADD.)
EMH: I'm telling him not to worry, that you're the one who keeps us all safe.
(Fantome plays notes on his PADD.)
EMH: He says thank you.
TUVOK: An ingenious method of communication.
EMH: It began with a few simple words, but now we're capable of rudimentary conversation.
TUVOK: Tell him I'm pleased he's feeling better.
EMH: I will.

[Mess hall]

(EMH and Fantome enter, exchanging tones)
BOSAAL: What's that parasite doing aboard your ship?
(Fantome hides behind the EMH.)
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
BOSAAL: They're vermin.
EMH: I don't know who you are, sir, but your choice of words is offensive.
BOSAAL: What is offensive is the way they slip aboard during transport, hide in conduits, steal food, spread disease.
EMH: Fantome is perfectly healthy, and unlike some people in this Void, he hasn't stolen anything.
BOSAAL: If my sensors could detect where they are on my ship, I'd exterminate them. I suggest you do the same.
EMH: Captain, this is outrageous!
JANEWAY: Doctor! One of the principles of our Alliance is that we don't discriminate. Everyone's welcome as long as they follow the rules. But if you're having a bad experience with the members of this species on your ship, I'd be happy to bring them to Voyager.
BOSAAL: If you could find them.
JANEWAY: Now that we've had a chance to analyse Fantome's physiology, I think we can get a transporter lock on them.
BOSAAL: Is this your way of enticing me to join your Alliance?
JANEWAY: I'm simply trying to demonstrate how cooperation and tolerance can benefit everyone.
BOSAAL: Then we have an agreement.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Okay, now connect the primary emitter relay.
GALEN: Online.
JANEWAY: How's it coming?
TORRES: Pretty well. We just need to
(The relay goes bang.)
TORRES: I guess I was being a little optimistic.
JANEWAY: What's the problem, exactly?
GALEN: We think we can establish a shield bubble large enough to encompass all our ships, but we have no way to compensate for the graviton stress.
JANEWAY: Wouldn't a polaron modulator be able to do that?
TORRES: Unfortunately, nobody in the Alliance has one. We've been trying to build our own, but so far
JANEWAY: Maybe we could trade for one, or find

[Astrometrics lab]

(The Heirarchy are eavesdropping.)
JANEWAY [on screen]: A new ally who has one.
GARON [on screen: It's not a common piece of technology and it's valuable. It may be difficult to convince anyone to part with it.
JANEWAY [on screen]: You never know unless you ask.
TUVOK: You are not authorised to be in here.
LOQUAR: We're making a valuable contribution to the Alliance.
TUVOK: By spying on restricted meetings?
LOQUAR: We've devised a new surveillance technique.
JANEWAY [on screen]: Ask Harry to give you a hand.
TUVOK: You've bypassed my security measures.
LOQUAR: We can observe activity on any ship in the Void without being detected. This is the cargo hold of the Jelinian freighter. Now, if I'm not mistaken, the Jelinians are a member of our Alliance.
TUVOK: Which is why you shouldn't be spying on them.
LOQUAR: And why they shouldn't be hoarding their ale.

[Sickbay]

(More Void aliens are aboard, communicating by music. Janeway enters. She applauds when they stop.)
JANEWAY: Lovely piece. Did they compose it or did you?
EMH: They did. Though strictly speaking, it's not a composition. It's more of a conversation.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed.
EMH: I wish I could take credit but it was Fantome who taught the others in a fraction of the time it took him to learn. They're a highly intelligent species.
SEVEN: The language is already developing its own grammar and syntax.
JANEWAY: That suggests they have a language of their own.
EMH: Mmm hmm. It could be telepathic, but they seem just as comfortable communicating with music now.
JANEWAY: Could their species be native to the Void?
EMH: It's certainly possible. They told us they were born here.
JANEWAY: Just when you think nothing in the galaxy can surprise you anymore.
TORRES [OC]: Captain Janeway, please report to Engineering.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Just what we needed, Captain. A fully compatible polaron modulator.
JANEWAY: Where did you get it?
BOSAAL: The Kinjal frigate.
JANEWAY: Do they want to join our Alliance?
BOSAAL: They're not interested.
JANEWAY: How did you get this?
BOSAAL: I traded for it.
JANEWAY: What did you give them?
BOSAAL: I don't answer to you.
JANEWAY: Did you steal it? Disconnect the modulator.
TORRES: Captain
JANEWAY: We're returning it to the people it belongs to.
BOSAAL: They have no more use for it.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
BOSAAL Yes, I do.
JANEWAY: You killed them.
GARON: Captain, I don't like his tactics any more than you do, but why waste this technology when we're so close to escaping?
JANEWAY: Because it's a violation of everything this Alliance stands for.
GARON: Refusing the modulator won't bring back the people he killed.
JANEWAY: No. But using it would make us accessories to murder. Take it and get out.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: The Jelinians and the Kraylor have left with Bosaal. They felt you were being
JANEWAY: Impulsive and self-righteous? Is that what you think?
CHAKOTAY: You did what you had to do.
JANEWAY: Still, I made a mistake.
CHAKOTAY: By telling Bosaal to leave?
JANEWAY Allowing him to join in the first place.
CHAKOTAY: You couldn't have known what he was going to do.
JANEWAY: Oh, I had a pretty good idea what kind of person he was. That bigoted reaction he had to the Doctor's friend told me all I needed to know, but I ignored my instincts.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
JANEWAY: Because I thought his ship could help us escape.
CHAKOTAY: You weren't the only one who wanted him in the Alliance.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But if I'd listened to my doubts in the first place, we wouldn't have lost the other two ships.
CHAKOTAY: We'll find a way out of here without them.
JANEWAY: Where do we stand with the modulator?
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna and the other engineers are working around the clock to build one. She thinks they'll be ready to test in a couple of days.
JANEWAY: So everyone's pulling together to make up for my mistake.
CHAKOTAY: They have to. It says so in the Federation Charter.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Good news, I hope.
TUVOK: I'm afraid not. It appears Commander Bosaal is attempting to form an alliance of his own with one of our adversaries.
LOQUAR: We recorded a tactical conversation that took place between them just a few minutes ago.
VALEN [on screen]: Don't underestimate Janeway. I've been in battle with her twice.
BOSAAL [on screen]: Then you know Janeway's tactics. I have two other ships. We can take Voyager's food and weapons if we work together.
TUVOK: The rest of their conversation suggests they will attack within the next forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: I'm so glad we taught them the value of cooperation.
TUVOK: Our power reserves will be severely depleted if we're forced to defend ourselves.
JANEWAY: Tell B'Elanna we don't have time to test her modulator. We've got to try to escape now.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Sorry to interrupt, but we've got a situation developing. We're going to try to break free of the anomaly. Your friends are welcome to join us but they should be aware of the dangers.
(The EMH translates this.)
EMH: The Void's their home. They want to stay.
JANEWAY: Where would they like us to transport them?
EMH: They're nomads. Any ship'll do. They said they're grateful for our help. They want to help us now.
(Preparations continue. Working out how to protect four ships inside one big shield, for example. And where Fantome's people are going to go.)

[Bridge]

KIM: There's a funnel forming in grid four. Graviton surge in ninety eight seconds.
JANEWAY: Alert the other ships. Take us in, Tom.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: Bosaal and his fleet are approaching. They are charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. Status.
TORRES [OC]: I need two more minutes.
JANEWAY: You've got one.
(Bosaal and company come in weapons blazing.)
KIM: Surge in fifty seconds.
JANEWAY: Voyager to all Alliance ships. Begin firing at your designated targets.
TUVOK: We've penetrated shields on both vessels.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the Doctor. Initiate

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY [OC]: Transport.
EMH: Acknowledged. Yes, Goodbye and good luck. Energise.
(The Void aliens are beamed away.)
SEVEN: Transport complete, Captain. They're in the engine rooms of both ships.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: Thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. We need that modulator.
TORRES [OC]: Just a few more seconds.
KIM: We're receiving a hail from Valen's ship, audio only.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
(Musical tones.)
JANEWAY: What's he saying, Doctor?

[Transporter room]

EMH: Mission accomplished. Fantome's shut down power on Valen's ship.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Confirmed. Bosaal's ship has lost power as well.
PARIS: Who says gremlins in the engine are a myth?
KIM: Surge in five seconds, four.
JANEWAY: Now, B'Elanna.
(The big shield is formed as they enter the funnel.)
CHAKOTAY: All ships are in formation.
TUVOK: Structural integrity at thirty percent
PARIS: Forty thousand metres to normal space.
TUVOK: Twenty percent, ten percent.
JANEWAY: Do it, Tom!
(The shield drops and they all go to warp.)

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Gentlemen, it's been a privilege to have you as allies.
GALEN: I never believed we'd escape.
LOQUAR: Then why did you join?
GALEN: Captain Janeway is very persuasive. And the food was good.
JANEWAY: You're welcome to have a meal with us anytime.
GALEN: Ah. Unfortunately, we're headed in the opposite direction. Safe journey to you and your crew, Captain.
JANEWAY: And to all of yours as well.
LOQUAR: Thank you.
(They are beamed away.)
JANEWAY: It was almost like being part of a Federation again.
CHAKOTAY: The real one's only thirty thousand light years away.
JANEWAY: Then what are we standing around for?


S7 E16
Workforce Part 1
Stardate: 545484.3 - 54622.4
Original Airdate: 21 February 2001

[Power distribution plant]
(On a modern planet, with a railway bridge running over a wide river through the middle of the city, workers of all races and species are walking down a metal staircase from the station. Janeway is in a blue leather suit. She takes the express lift down to a mid level walkway and into the plant.)
JANEWAY: Excuse me, can you tell me where I can find the supervisor?
WORKER: Over there.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
SUPERVISOR: Your authorisation and licenses please? Level six in thermal dynamics and quantum fusion. Well, Janeway, I'm impressed.
JANEWAY: Thank you, sir.
SUPERVISOR: Now if you can just manage to report to your shift on time.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, I boarded the wrong transport. I ended up at the Atmosphere Filtration Facility.
SUPERVISOR: They're always looking for skilled workers. I'm surprised they didn't offer you a job.
JANEWAY: I promise I won't be late again.
SUPERVISOR: Well, it's easy to get disoriented when you're new here. I've been in this city all my life and I still get lost on occasion. Now you'll be monitoring the primary reactor coils. They process more than eight thousand
JANEWAY: Eight thousand metric tons of tylium per second at ninety four percent thermal efficiency. I memorised the specifications.
SUPERVISOR: Let me know if there's anything you need. You'll find we like to keep our workforce happy.
JANEWAY: I can already tell it's going to be much better than my last job.
(She goes to her console, then looks around. Later -)
SUPERVISOR: The specifications you asked for.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
(She takes the foreign style PADD and taps on a Borg style control panel, then returns to her console.)
COMPUTER: Input error four one five. Command code violation two three zero eight.
JANEWAY: Come on, shut off that damn alarm and I promise I'll never violate you again.
(A man puts his finger on a control, and the alarm stops.)
JAFFEN: You almost started a core overload.
JANEWAY: I would have corrected it.
JAFFEN: Well I'm sorry for interrupting then, and for eavesdropping. I overheard you talking to your console.
JANEWAY: It's an old habit.
JAFFEN: Does it work?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure this control panel and I speak the same language yet.
JAFFEN: Well, if you need an interpreter. Jaffen.
JANEWAY: Kathryn.
JAFFEN: I work just down there.
JANEWAY: That's good to know.
SEVEN: This station doesn't require two operators.
(Seven is in a tight grey suit, and a slightly different hairstyle.)
JAFFEN: I don't think we've met. I'm
SEVEN: Employee one three two six, and you're employee eight five eight four. Since you're new here, you may not be fully familiar with the labour protocols, but you should be aware that fraternising is not permitted during work hours.
JAFFEN: And do you have a number. or maybe a name?
SEVEN: Annika Hansen.
JAFFEN: And what exactly is your position here?
SEVEN: I'm the new Efficiency Monitor.
JAFFEN: Oh, I didn't know they'd hired one.
SEVEN: Now that you do, I suggest you return to your station.
JANEWAY: We weren't fraternising. He was just helping me correct an input error. We're almost finished.
SEVEN: Do it quickly.
JANEWAY: Yes, ma'am.
JAFFEN: I thought we were fraternising. Maybe we could get acquainted after work. There is a little place some of us like to go to. We could get a meal.
JANEWAY: I can't.
JAFFEN: You need to talk to someone besides your console.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but with this new job I don't really have time to socialise.

[Bar]

(Just the bar owner and Paris.)
UMALI: They're always looking for labourers at the Power Distribution Plant.
PARIS: I had a job there once. Didn't like it much.
UMALI: Odd. They treat their employees well. How long were you there?
PARIS: Oh, a while.
UMALI: It would be very simple for me to find out.
PARIS: A day.
UMALI: A day?
PARIS: Half a day, actually. Give or take an hour.
UMALI: Not what I'd call an illustrious career.
PARIS: I don't belong behind a console pushing buttons, But when I heard some of the workers talking about your place, I knew I had to get a job here.
UMALI: You were terminated, weren't you?
PARIS: Yes.
UMALI: That's quite an accomplishment during a labour shortage. What happened?
PARIS: It's a long story.
UMALI: I like a long story.
PARIS: I had a disagreement with the new Efficiency Monitor. She didn't think my work was very
UMALI: Efficient?
PARIS: Exactly.
UMALI: Then why should I hire you?
PARIS: Well, there's my natural charm and personality. They'd be a real asset around a place like this where you're trying to attract patrons. I mean, look at you. You haven't been able to tear yourself away from me.
UMALI: There's no one else here.
PARIS: Please. I really need the work.
UMALI: You'd better clean those tables over there. This place is going to be filled with hungry workers as soon as the next shift ends.
PARIS: You won't regret this.
UMALI: Oh, I'm certain I will. (Later, when the bar is full of workers.)
JAFFEN: All of them about my father and he couldn't understand why I wasn't insulted. Finally I just had to tell him. I'm Norvalen, I don't have a father!
(A dark man in a green leather outfit slaps the bar and laughs hysterically.)
JAFFEN: It wasn't that funny, Tuvok.
TUVOK: On the contrary. The man was ignorant of how your species procreates. His attempt to disparage you ultimately humiliated him. Irony is often a source of humour.
JAFFEN: Yes, well, when you explain it like that, it's not funny at all.
TUVOK: I also have some humorous anecdotes to share.
JAFFEN: I'll look forward to hearing them.
(Janeway enters and goes to a spare table.)
JAFFEN: I thought you didn't have time to socialise?
JANEWAY: I'm not socialising. I'm reviewing these manuals and having something to eat.
JAFFEN: Well, I recommend the Latara broth and the section on thermal coefficients. I'll join you.
JANEWAY: Really, I'm very, very busy.
JAFFEN: Oh, not to socialise. To, er, help you review the manuals.
(Paris brings two blue cocktails to a couple at another table.)
PARIS: Here you are. Compliments of the proprietress.
UMALI: Tom?
PARIS: I'll be right back.
UMALI: The proprietress doesn't give away drinks.
PARIS: Well, I'm just creating customer loyalty.
UMALI: You've been creating loyalty all night with those two women. I suggest you attend to the other tables.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
(Umali brings Janeway her plate.)
UMALI: Here you are.
JAFFEN: Thank you. It looks great.
(Pregnant B'Elanna Torres enters, also in leather, but looking completely miserable. She looks at the happy people and leaves again.)

[Staircase and walkway]

JANEWAY: I can't believe I let you keep me out this late.
JAFFEN: I felt it was my responsibility to help you study those manuals.
JANEWAY: Of course.
JAFFEN: And now that I have, you should be less likely to overload the core. You know, with all this fascinating discussion about thermal co-efficients you never told me where you're from.
JANEWAY: A planet called Earth.
JAFFEN: Never heard of it.
JANEWAY: Oh, a long way from here.
JAFFEN: What's it like?
JANEWAY: Overpopulated, polluted, very little work.
JAFFEN: It sounds like my home world. I guess we're both lucky to be here.
JANEWAY: It's nice to be in a place where different species get along so well.
JAFFEN: So, you admit we're getting along.
JANEWAY: I was speaking in a broader cultural context.
JAFFEN: I see.
JANEWAY: There's a lot of violence where I come from.
JAFFEN: That's too bad.
JANEWAY: I still haven't adjusted to the weather here. It gets so cold at night.
SECURITY: It's almost curfew.
JAFFEN: Yes, sir. We both live right here.
SECURITY: Good night, then.
JAFFEN: You know, one of the advantages of living in employee housing is that we can continue sharing ideas even after the work day is over.
JANEWAY: Is that so?
JAFFEN: Yes, and I do have a spectacular view of the river from my living quarters.
JANEWAY: I really have to get to sleep. Maybe another time.
JAFFEN: I'm sorry if I'm making you uncomfortable.
JANEWAY: You're not.
JAFFEN: Well, if you get lonely
JANEWAY: I'll let you know.

[Power Distribution Plant]

(In the middle of a shift, as Janeway is tapping at her console, an alarm sounds.)
JANEWAY: It wasn't me.
JAFFEN: It's not an overload. It's time for our inoculations.
JANEWAY: What inoculations?
JAFFEN: They're nothing to worry about. Protection against ambient radiation.
JANEWAY: I didn't realise that was a problem.
JAFFEN: It's not, as long as you're inoculated regularly. We're lucky to have an employer that concerned about our safety.

[Inoculation queue]

MED TECH: Is something wrong?
TUVOK: Forgive me, but I'm, I'm afraid of injections.
MED TECH: I assure you, this is painless.
TUVOK: Is there some other method of administering the medication?
MED TECH: No, I'm afraid there isn't.
TUVOK: Very well.
(Tuvok has a flashback to a previous injection against his will, when he was in Starfleet uniform.)
MED TECH: We're finished. You can go back to work. Next.
(Seven is next. Tuvok totters away and leans on a nearby console.)

First Officer's log, stardate 54584.3. Ensign Kim, Mister Neelix and I are returning to Voyager after five days of trading with the Nar Shaddan.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(Kim is on the biobed.)
KIM: In six years I've never been on an away mission worse than this one.
NEELIX: I don't know how you can say that? The cargo hold is crammed with valuable supplies.
KIM: And my stomach is crammed with alien parasites doing backflips.
NEELIX: I guess you shouldn't have drunk that Falah nectar.
KIM: You insisted I try it.
NEELIX: The Nar Shaddan consider it a delicacy. To refuse would have insulted them.
KIM: I didn't hear you insisting that Commander Chakotay try it.
NEELIX: Commander Chakotay's a vegetarian.
KIM: It was made from meat?
NEELIX: More like a meat by-product.
KIM: I'm going to be sick.
NEELIX: Not after you drink this.
KIM: What is it?
NEELIX: Leola bark tea, to settle even the queasiest of stomachs.
KIM: Oh, it smells worse than the meat nectar. I'll wait for the Doctor to treat me. At least I'll be sleeping in my own bed tonight.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Harry, I know you're not feeling well, but I need you and Neelix up here.
KIM: On our way.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]

NEELIX: Anything wrong, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: We're at the rendezvous coordinates, but there's no sign of Voyager, and they're not responding to hails. Start scanning on all frequencies. They've got to be out there somewhere.
KIM: So much for my own bed.

[Engineering]

(The EMH has red shoulders on his uniform. The ECH has been activated, and is trying to repair Voyager..) 
EMH: Re-initialise the subspace transponder.
COMPUTER: Warning. Main computer is failing.
EMH: Switch to backup processors.
COMPUTER: Main computer stabilised.
EMH: Good. Now, let's try this again. Re-initialise the subspace transponder.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: Why not?
COMPUTER: Insufficient power.
EMH: And they say I'm difficult. Reroute power from the replicator system.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: Clarify.
COMPUTER: Relays to the transponder are fused.
EMH: Any suggestions?
COMPUTER: Please restate inquiry.
EMH: Can the power relays be bypassed?
COMPUTER: Negative. 
EMH: Then I suppose I'll have to replace them by hand.
COMPUTER: Warning. Intruder alert.
EMH: Where?
COMPUTER: The bridge.
EMH: How many?
COMPUTER: Two humanoids.
EMH: Can you identify them?
COMPUTER: Negative. Sensor resolution is below twenty percent.

[Bridge]

(The ECH sneaks onto the bridge, phaser ready. His wrist beacon reveals two figures in environment suits.)
EMH: Stop what you're doing and turn around!
KIM: Take it easy, Doc. It's us.
EMH: It's good to see some friendly faces. For that matter, it's good to see any faces at all. I'm sorry I haven't gotten life support back online yet, but since I've been the only one aboard it hasn't been a priority.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell happened?
EMH: We ran into some problems.
CHAKOTAY: I can see that. Can you be a little more specific?
EMH: Of course. About twelve hours after you left on your away mission, things started to go wrong.

[EMH narrative - Doctor's office]

EMH [OC]: We hit some sort of subspace mine.
(The ship shudders, the EMH flickers and dashes into his office.)
EMH: Computer, transfer the EMH to the mobile emitter. Sickbay to bridge. Sickbay to Engineering, please respond.
EMH [OC]: It wasn't long before I was inundated with casualties, all suffering from tetryon radiation poisoning. Pretty soon the Captain arrived.
JANEWAY: Doctor, can you treat these people?
EMH: I can stabilise them, but if we can't contain the radiation
JANEWAY: Get everyone to the escape pods, quickly. Not you, Doctor. I need you here.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: Computer, activate the Emergency Command Hologram. Authorisation Janeway omega three.
COMPUTER: Command codes transferred.
JANEWAY: You've wanted this chance for a long time. Now you've got it.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Try to vent the radiation. The rest of us will get out of the contaminated area and head for the nearest habitable planet.
EMH: You need medical care.
JANEWAY: Unless someone answers our distress call we'll have to made do with medkits. We'll rendezvous as soon as it's safe to come back on board. Take good care of Voyager.
EMH: You can count on me, Captain.

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

EMH [OC]: The crew abandoned ship and I began to assess the damage caused by the mine. But before I could even get started with the repairs, I got some unexpected company.
(Whumph!)
EMH: Computer, report.
COMPUTER: An alien vessel has locked on to Voyager with a tractor beam.
EMH: Open a channel. This is the Federation starship Voyager. Disengage your tractor beam.
COYOTE [on viewscreen]: Our scans show no lifesigns aboard your vessel. Identify yourself.
EMH: I am the Emergency Command Hologram.
COYOTE [on viewscreen]: Hologram?
EMH: That's right. Now release my ship.
COYOTE [on viewscreen]: Your crew's abandoned it. It belongs to me now.
EMH: I beg to differ. Computer, target the vessel's tractor emitter and fire.
(The tractor beam is cut off. The other ship starts shooting.)
EMH: Come about, heading nine zero three mark six. Engage at warp two.
COMPUTER: Warp engines are offline.
EMH: Evasive pattern beta four. Target the vessel's engines.
(The computers puts holes in those parts of the ship.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Two vessels approaching bearing three three six mark one.
EMH: Reverse course. Full impulse.

[Bridge]

EMH: I managed to evade the other two ships and hid inside this nebula. I vented the radiation, repaired as many systems as I could, but with no help? Let's just say I'm glad you found me.
KIM: It wasn't easy picking up your homing signal.
EMH: Well, I had to encrypt it. Every time I left the nebula I detected more ships searching for me.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea who they are?
EMH: No, but I've analysed all of their weapons signatures. They match the subspace mine. It was a deliberate attempt to disable Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Good thing you were here.
KIM: What about the rest of the crew?
EMH: Not a word.

[Tuvok's memories - Quarren Medical Facility]

(Tuvok is at the Power Distribution Plant, looking down on Janeway working. He recalls the time when the pair of them were rescued from their escape pods.)
KADAN: Make them comfortable. We're going to treat your injuries.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
KADAN: My name is Doctor Kadan. We're in a Quarren Medical Facility.
JANEWAY: My crew ?
KADAN: My understanding is that they've all been rescued from their escape pods.
JANEWAY: Treat my people first.
KADAN: Everyone will be taken care of.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
TUVOK: What is that medication?
KADAN: An anti-radiation serum. Perfectly safe.
(Janeway is injected, then an open helmet is placed over her head.)
TUVOK: What are you doing?
KADAN: She's suffering from dysphoria syndrome. Don't worry, it's treatable.
(Lights from the helmet shine on her face.)
TUVOK: Release her immediately.
KADAN: Restrain him.
TUVOK: Captain! No, no!
(Tuvok is injected, just as he remembered in the inoculation queue.)

[Power Distribution Plant]

(Tuvok approaches Janeway.)
TUVOK: Excuse me.
JANEWAY: Hi.
TUVOK: I believe we know each other.
JANEWAY: You're Tuvok, right? We met last week at the shift briefing.
TUVOK: Before that. Before we were working here.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't think so. I mean, we're obviously not from the same place.
TUVOK: Still, I believe I know you. From the hospital, perhaps?
JANEWAY: What hospital?
TUVOK: I am not certain. We were patients.
JANEWAY: You must have me confused with someone else. I've never been sick enough to go to a hospital. I'm sorry, I have a lot of work to finish.
TUVOK: Please, try to remember. It may be important.
JAFFEN: Is there a problem here?
JANEWAY: I think it's just a misunderstanding.
JAFFEN: Tuvok?
TUVOK: She's right. It's, er, it's, er, a misunderstanding.
JAFFEN: You don't look well. Maybe you should go to the infirmary.
TUVOK: No, no, I'm fine. Fine. Er, I'll go back to my station. Sorry to have bothered you.
(Tuvok leaves.)
JAFFEN: What was that all about?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. Strange man.
JAFFEN: And a terrible joke teller. So, we having dinner tonight?
JANEWAY: Again?
JAFFEN: What, you don't like my cooking?
JANEWAY: No, it's wonderful. It's just
JAFFEN: I'm a perfectionist. I'm going to keep trying until I make you the perfect meal.
JANEWAY: And then we stop eating together? I'll have dinner with you, on one condition. I make it.
JAFFEN: I think I can accept those terms.
JANEWAY: Good. Now go back to your station before the Efficiency Monitor catches us fraternising.

[Bar]

(Torres is sitting alone at a table, reading a PADD.)
PARIS: Can I bring you something else?
TORRES: No, thank you.
PARIS: I haven't seen you in here before.
TORRES: You probably just didn't notice.
PARIS: Oh, I'd have noticed.
TORRES: Well, apparently you aren't as observant as you think you are.
PARIS: Oh, really?
TORRES: I've been coming in here the same time every day, for the past two weeks.
PARIS: Well, that explains it. I usually work nights.
TORRES: Me, too.
PARIS: At the Power Distribution Facility. You see? I am observant.
UMALI: Tom, I need you for a moment.
PARIS: I'll be right there. Listen, you should come back in when you get a night off. It's a lot more fun when there's a crowd.
TORRES: I don't really like crowds.
PARIS: Well then, maybe we could get together during the day sometime, take a walk by the river.
TORRES: I don't think so.
PARIS: Why not? I'm a very engaging conversationalist.
(Then he sees her big bump.)
PARIS: Oh.
TORRES: Yeah. Still want to get together?
PARIS: You're married.
TORRES: No.
PARIS: Oh.
TORRES: Enjoy your day.

First Officer's log, stardate 54597.9. After restoring primary systems, we've left the nebula to try to find the crew. Though there's still a lot of damage, we have been able to reconfigure sensors to detect subspace mines. Ensign Kim's been running continuous scans but there's still no sign of our people. On the bright side, the ships that were searching for us seem to have given up. With only four people on board, repairs are going slowly.

[Engineering]

COMPUTER: Power to the secondary propulsion systems has been restored.
KIM [OC]: Kim to Doctor. Report to Astrometrics.
EMH: On my way.

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: Any luck?
KIM: I've scanned ships and planets in eighty three systems. No humans, no Vulcans, no Bolians.
EMH: Maybe we can increase the range of the sensors by tying them into the main deflector?
KIM: I've already done that.
EMH: Oh. Well, we can boost resolution by
KIM: I appreciate your input, Doc, but I didn't call you down here to help me scan. I'm still feeling kind of queasy from that nectar.
EMH: I treated you days ago.
KIM: Whatever you did hasn't worked. Maybe all those command subroutines are compromising your medical abilities.
EMH: Maybe all that sarcasm is compromising your natural charm.

[Bridge]

EMH: I've repaired the deuterium injectors, brought secondary propulsion back online, and soothed Ensign Kim's upset tummy.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Why don't you get started on the ruptured plasma conduits on deck ten?
EMH: Can't you take care of those?
CHAKOTAY: I beg your pardon?
EMH: Emergency Command Hologram. Doesn't that suggest my place is here, in Voyager's command centre?
CHAKOTAY: Look, Doc, I'm impressed with the way you handled yourself while we were gone. But right now we've got to prioritise.
KIM [OC] : Kim to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[[Astrometrics lab]

KIM: I've found them, Commander. They're on an M class planet. At maximum warp, we can be there in less than three days.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Transfer the coordinates to the helm. I'll be in Astrometrics. Doctor, the command centre is yours.

[Jaffen's apartment]

JAFFEN: Mmm, smells good.
JANEWAY: It's only burnt on the outside. Your cooking console's a little temperamental, huh?
JAFFEN: Did you try talking to it?
JANEWAY: Once I cut off the charred part, I'm sure it'll be fine.
(Jaffen tries a piece.)
JAFFEN: It's good.
JANEWAY: Really?
(He shakes his head.)
JAFFEN: Let's go.
JAFFEN: Where?
JANEWAY: I promised you dinner. We'll just have to get it somewhere else.
JAFFEN: Wait. I'm not really hungry. Are you?
JANEWAY: No.
JAFFEN: Let's stay here.
(They kiss passionately.)

First Officer's log, stardate 54608.6. We've traced the crew's life signs to a large city on a planet called Quarra. Unfortunately, the local officials aren't being very cooperative.

[Bridge]

AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I have personally interviewed several of the individuals on your crew manifest. None of them know who you are, nor have they heard of a starship Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to speak to them myself.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: That's not possible.
CHAKOTAY: If you're telling the truth, you have nothing to lose by letting us talk to them.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: Unlike other planets in this system, we grant our guest workers the full protection of our laws.
EMH: What exactly are you protecting them from?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: Unscrupulous individuals attempting to acquire skilled labourers.
EMH: We're not trying to acquire labourers. We're trying to find our friends.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: Most of your friends have excellent positions in the Central Power Facility in the capital. Why would any of them want to travel thousands of light years to a planet on the other side of the galaxy when they have safe, comfortable lives right here?
CHAKOTAY: Because it isn't their home.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I suggest you look elsewhere to increase your labour supply. And if you attempt to disturb any of our citizens, we will respond with force.
(Transmission ends.)
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
KIM: There's no way to beam them through the shield grid.
CHAKOTAY: Take us out of orbit.
EMH: We're not leaving them behind?
CHAKOTAY: No, but I want these people to think we are.

[Jaffen's apartment]

JAFFEN: I hope the cooking console's not being temperamental again?
JANEWAY: Making a hot drink is one thing I can do.
JAFFEN You're right. It's good.
JANEWAY: I told you.
JAFFEN: What's even better is being here with you. Are you comfortable?
JANEWAY: The blanket's nice and warm.
JAFFEN: No, I mean here with me.
JANEWAY: I can't remember being more comfortable in my life.

[Bar]

PARIS: (to barman) Yeah, I'll take care of it.
(He sees Torres sitting on her own again.)
PARIS: Hi. Listen, I get off work in a few minutes. I thought maybe you and I could go
TORRES: You don't give up, do you?
PARIS: You don't even know what I was going to say.
TORRES: Let me guess. You're going to invite me to take a walk by the river, or maybe to your living quarters to admire the view.
PARIS: Actually I was going to offer to introduce you to some people I met. A couple, expecting their first baby in a few weeks. I thought you might want to get to know some other parents. You know, swap stories, maybe even find a playmate for your baby? If it's a bad idea
TORRES: No. No, it's nice.
PARIS: Listen, I'm sorry about the other day.
TORRES: I'm the one who should be apologising. I shouldn't have assumed
PARIS: Forget it.
TORRES: Look, it's rare that I admit I'm wrong so you might as well take advantage of it while you can. It's been hard, being alone with a baby coming. I have a habit of keeping my guard up.
PARIS: That's understandable.
TORRES: It's just, a romantic relationship is really out of the question for me right now, and when you started asking
PARIS: How about a friend?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Well, you said romance is out of the question, but could you use a friend?

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Any progress?
NEELIX: I've spoken to the captains of eight vessels that left Quarra in the last two weeks.
EMH: No one knew anything about the crew?
NEELIX: No, but every one of them asked me if I was looking for employment. Apparently, there's a severe labour shortage throughout this system. There's a lot of competition for workers.
CHAKOTAY: That Ambassador said most of our people were working at the main power facility. I wonder if they still have any positions to fill?
NEELIX: I can make some inquiries. Why?
CHAKOTAY: Because you and I are going to find ourselves jobs.
EMH: Re-entering orbit might arouse their suspicion.
NEELIX: Not if we take my ship.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea, Neelix.
EMH: Commander, you've spoken directly with several government officials. You could be recognised.
CHAKOTAY: Isn't reconstructive surgery one of your specialties?

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay gains heavy orbital bones and loses the tattoo.)
NEELIX: I still say you should have posed as a Talaxian. We'd have made a striking pair.
CHAKOTAY: Whiskers make me itch. How did it go?
NEELIX: As soon as I told the Supervisor our qualifications, he was eager to hire us. He even helped me get a docking permit for my ship. We'll be gainfully employed by tomorrow morning.
KIM: Here you go, Doc.
EMH: Give me your hand, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: What's this?
KIM: A sub-dermal transponder. It will allow us to maintain an open comm. link so we can transport you through the shield grid if there's trouble.
CHAKOTAY: Hold position at maximum transporter range.
KIM: Aye, sir.
EMH: I assumed I'd be in charge during your absence, Commander.
KIM: Excuse me?
EMH: An Emergency Command Hologram programmed with over two million tactical subroutines outranks an Ensign.
KIM: A few words to the computer and this Ensign can delete those subroutines.
EMH: Then you'd be depriving yourself of a skilled leader for the sake of your ego.
KIM: Oh, my ego?
CHAKOTAY: Gentlemen. Work it out.
BOTH: Aye, sir.

[Power distribution plant]

SEVEN: Employee eight five eight three. Mister Tuvok. According to my records, you've neglected to report for your last three inoculations. These inoculations are for your protection. A sick worker is not an efficient worker. Report to the infirmary.
(Tuvok is looking a bit sweaty.)
TUVOK: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: What?
TUVOK: Seven of Nine. It's your designation.
SEVEN: My employee number is eight five eight six. Take your hands off me!
(Tuvok starts a mind meld.)
SEVEN: Call security!
(He shows her herself stepping down from her regeneration alcove.)
TUVOK: I don't believe you are who you think you are.
(Security drag him away. Janeway goes to Seven.)
TUVOK: We don't belong here. We don't belong here! This isn't right! We don't belong here!
(Next day -)
SUPERVISOR: Qualification level three in micro-kinetics. You could use some improvement there. Level five in thermionic conversion. Good, We lost a thermionic specialist yesterday.
CHAKOTAY: Did he find a better job?
SUPERVISOR: Health problems.
(Chakotay looks at a female human worker.)
SUPERVISOR: Someone you know?
CHAKOTAY: No, just an unusual species.
SUPERVISOR: We have a diverse workforce. Our thermionic converters operate on a rotating frequency, so they have to be closely monitored. You'll be required to report your readings to the controller at a regular interval. Any questions?
(Chakotay has spotted Janeway.)
SUPERVISOR: Are you listening to me?
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, sir. I'm just excited to be here.
SUPERVISOR: Carry on.
(The supervisor leaves. Chakotay goes over to Janeway.)
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Yes?
CHAKOTAY: It's Chakotay.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry?
CHAKOTAY: I'm new here. The supervisor said you would be a good person to speak to if I had any questions.
JANEWAY: What can I help you with?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing. I just wanted to introduce myself.
JANEWAY: Oh. What did you say your name was?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay. Actually, that's just what my friends call me. My employment file lists my given name, Amal Kotay.
JANEWAY: Well, whatever your name is, I'm happy to help you any way I can.

[Quarren Medical Facility]

TUVOK: No. No.
KADAN: You're experiencing a relapse of dysphoria syndrome. This is going to make you feel better.
TUVOK: Get away from me.
(They finally manage to inject him.)

[Bar]

(Paris is behind the counter.)
PARIS: Losing my job there was the best thing that ever happened to me.
NEELIX: Why's that?
PARIS: Well, so many rules and regulations. It was like a military operation.
NEELIX: I know what you mean. Report here, reroute power there. It's almost like serving aboard a starship.
PARIS: Have you ever done that?
NEELIX: You're looking at the former captain of his own cargo vessel.
PARIS: Hmm. Must be quite a life.
NEELIX: What about you. Ever worked on a ship?
PARIS: Oh, no. Space travel makes me sick.
(Torres is with a couple, and laughing.)
NEELIX: So, do you know most of the people that come in here?
PARIS: A lot of them. This is a great place to work.
NEELIX: Seems like it.
PARIS: I could put in a good word for you to my employer.
CHAKOTAY: Ah, Neelix.
NEELIX: I was wondering when you'd get here. Amal Kotay, this is my new friend, Tom Paris.
PARIS: What can I get you?
CHAKOTAY: That looks good.
NEELIX: I was assigned to the Primary Fusion Chamber along with Mulchaey and Celes. Neither of them recognised me.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. They really love their jobs.
NEELIX: It's like they've all been programmed to be happy here.
CHAKOTAY: It's a safe bet they're not going to leave willingly.
PARIS: Here you go.
(Janeway and Jaffen go up to the bar.)
JANEWAY: Hi, how was your first day?
CHAKOTAY: Not bad.
JANEWAY: Would you and your friend like to join us?
CHAKOTAY: That would be nice.
JAFFEN: Er, actually I was hoping we could eat alone tonight.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe another time.
JANEWAY: That was rude.
JAFFEN: I'm sorry, I just, er. There's something I'd like to talk to you about.
TORRES: Thanks.
WOMAN: Thank you for joining us.
PARIS: B'Elanna. I'm due for a break. I'll walk you to the transport.
TORRES: Stop worrying. I'll be fine.
PARIS: It's not you that I'm worried about.
TORRES: The baby will be fine, too.
(Torres leaves. Neelix and Chakotay follow her out.)
JAFFEN: So, what I was thinking is. If we were to combine our resources, we would reduce our expenses.
JANEWAY: Are you asking me to move in?
JAFFEN: Yes. I know it's impulsive, I know we haven't known each other very long. But things are so easy when we're together, and I just thought I
JANEWAY: Okay.
JAFFEN: What?
JANEWAY: Maybe I'm out of my mind, but let's try it.

[Street]

(Neelix is walking behind Torres. Chakotay bumps into her from the front.)
CHAKOTAY: Excuse me.
TORRES: It was my fault. I should watch where I'm going.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: How do you know my name?
CHAKOTAY: What if I told you we were old friends?
TORRES: That's a ridiculous statement.
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds strange, but I can prove it to you.
TORRES: Look, I'm sorry, but I'm late for work.
(Chakotay drags her off the street.)
TORRES: Let go of me!
CHAKOTAY: I'm not going to hurt you.
TORRES: No.
(Torres punches Chakotay. Neelix grabs her from behind.)
TORRES: Security, help!
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. We've got B'Elanna.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Lock on to Neelix's signal and transport them to Sickbay.
KIM: Acknowledged.

[Street]

TORRES: Help me!
SECURITY: Let her go.
(Neelix and Torres beam out. Chakotay runs)
SECURITY: Stop!
CHAKOTAY: Harry, I need an emergency transport now!

[Bridge]

KIM: Sorry, Commander, we're under attack. I had to raise shields.
(Voyager leaves orbit with two ships in pursuit.)

[Sickbay]

TORRES: No, leave me alone.
NEELIX: We're friends. We're trying to help you.
TORRES: No, don't touch me!
(Meanwhile, Tuvok is being brainwashed for the second time, and Janeway and Jaffen are kissing.)

[Gantry]

SECURITY: He turned into the access way.
SECURITY 2: I'll call for reinforcements.
(Chakotay encounters a forcefield protecting a very big drop.)
SECURITY 2 [OC]: I think he went in there!
SECURITY [OC]: Be careful, he might be armed.

To Be Continued...


S7 E17
Workforce Part 2
Stardate: 545484.3 - 54622.4
Original Airdate: 28 February 2001

[Gantry]

(Chakotay picks up a metal rod and smashes the forcefield controls.)
SECURITY: Wait here.
SECURITY 2: Yes, sir.
(The security man feels carefully for the forcefield.)
SECURITY: He's deactivated a safety field. Alert emergency medical, he may have tried to jump.
(Chakotay attacks him, and gets his weapon, but gets wounded by the other security officer before he shoots them both and escapes.)

{Bridge]

(Voyager is taking damage.)
KIM: I can't penetrate their shields.
EMH: Maybe we don't have to. The battle of Vorkado, it's in my tactical database. A Romulan captain disabled two attacking vessels by creating a photonic shock wave between the ships.
KIM: How'd he do that?
EMH: Watch and learn.
(A photon torpedo is fired between the two attacking ships, then detonated by phaser fire. The shockwave hits the ships hard.)
EMH: I don't think they'll be bothering us again.
KIM: Good work. Let's go back for Chakotay.
EMH: Five more ships on an intercept course.
KIM: What's your tactical database telling you now?
EMH: Transporters are damaged, shields are failing. We have to retreat, come up with a new plan.
KIM: Agreed.

[Bar]

(Chakotay enters, holding his left shoulder. He sits at a quiet table to check the damage.)
JANEWAY: Listen, I'm sorry about my friend.
CHAKOTAY: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: Jaffen. He wasn't very nice when I invited you to join us. Are you all right?
CHAKOTAY: I'm just a little tired. First day on a new job.
JANEWAY: I know how that can be. Well, I just wanted to let you know you're more than welcome to sit with us.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I was thinking about going home.
JANEWAY: Well, if you change your mind, we're celebrating.
CHAKOTAY: What's the occasion?
JANEWAY: I've decided to move in with Jaffen.
CHAKOTAY: Congratulations.
YERID: (to security guard) Look among the patrons. (to Paris) Yerid, criminal investigations.
PARIS: We run an honest business.
YERID: I'm looking for two people who disappeared after leaving here earlier this evening. One was a young pregnant woman.
PARIS: B'Elanna?
YERID: You know her?
PARIS: I knew I should have walked her to the transport.
YERID: Why, did you think someone might try to hurt her?
PARIS: This city is supposed to be safe!
YERID: The person with her was described as short, with mottled skin, facial hair.
PARIS: Sounds like someone who was in here earlier. A worker from the plant.
YERID: Do you know his name?
PARIS: Neelix, I think.
YERID: Did you see him talking to anyone else while he was here?
PARIS: He had a friend, Amal something.
YERID: Can you describe him?
PARIS: I don't have to, he's sitting right over
(But the chair is now empty.)

ECH log, stardate 54622.4. I've found an ingenious place to hide while we make repairs. A moon with a para-magnetic core that masks our energy signature. I've turned my attention to Lieutenant Torres, whose treatment will also require ingenuity.

[Sickbay]

EMH: The scan on the left was performed during B'Elanna's last physical. The one on the right, just a few minutes ago. The memory centres of her brain have been radically altered.
NEELIX: People from our crew seemed to remember parts of their real lives, but they got a lot of the details wrong. Tom knew his name, that he was from Earth, but he said space travel made him sick.
EMH: Whoever did this is very sophisticated, capable of selectively manipulating memory engrams. Some have been suppressed, some altered, others left intact.
NEELIX: Can you undo the damage?
EMH: I believe so, but it'll take some time.
NEELIX: I wish I could help.
EMH: Maybe you can. She'll require several treatments. In between, you could expose her to familiar sights and surroundings.
NEELIX: Say no more. I'll take her on a whirlwind tour of her own life.
EMH: Don't rush things. This is going to be very traumatic for her.

[Quarren Medical Facility]

(Tuvok is strapped to a bed.)
RAVOC: Acute anxiety, depression. When I interviewed him he insisted that he's not who he's supposed to be, that we've stolen his katra, whatever that is.
KADAN: Conclusions?
RAVOC: Tri-lobe regression complex? Polar-affective disorder?
KADAN: Neuro-psychiatry isn't a guessing game, Doctor Ravoc.
RAVOC: Dysphoria syndrome.
KADAN: You have been studying my research.
RAVOC: According to your work, the condition is very rare.
KADAN: It is. I've treated this man before. Apparently, he has suffered a relapse. Recommended treatment?
RAVOC: Engrammatic resequencing is typically indicated.
KADAN: You seem sceptical.
RAVOC: Resequencing is a radical procedure.
KADAN: If he had a malignant tumour, would you be afraid to cut it out?
RAVOC: No.
KADAN: This syndrome is just as insidious. It requires aggressive treatment. Get started.
(Radan leaves.)
TUVOK: Please. Help me.
RAVOC: That's what we're here to do.

[Supervisor's office]

(Seven's mind meld is giving her flashbacks.)
SEVEN: I want to know the status of employee eight five eight three.
SUPERVISOR: Maybe it's different where you come from, but here it's polite to say good morning.
SEVEN: Good morning.
SUPERVISOR: Eight five eight three. The man who was removed by security yesterday. He's been hospitalised.
SEVEN: Is there any reason to believe that his condition might be contagious? He came in contact with other workers. Some of them have expressed concern.
SUPERVISOR: Well, tell them not worry.
YERID: Excuse me, am I intruding?
SUPERVISOR: What can we do for you?
YERID: I'm investigating the disappearance of two of your employees.
SUPERVISOR: Who?
YERID: Their names are Neelix and Torres.
SEVEN: Both of them failed to report for work today.
YERID What about this man?
SEVEN: Employee nine three six three. He didn't report for his shift either.
(That is Chakotay.)
YERID: I'd like to see his personnel file, and I'll need to interview anyone who may know where he is.
SEVEN: Why are you looking for him?
YERID: I believe he's responsible for the disappearance of the other two.

[Jaffen's apartment]

(Janeway is unpacking.)
JAFFEN: You've only been here three weeks. Where did you get all these things?
JANEWAY: I'm a collector.
JAFFEN: You collect spent plasma relays?
JANEWAY: I like to think of it as a decorative object.
(She puts it with his vase on a sideboard.)
JANEWAY: You know, I think this would look better over there.
JAFFEN: You're not going to start telling me how to dress, are you? Where are you going?
JANEWAY: To get the rest of my things.
JAFFEN: There's more?

[Janeway's apartment]

(Janeway discovers a bloodied cloth.)
JANEWAY: Lights.
(Chakotay is sitting against the wall, with the security man's weapon pointed at her. He gets up and closes the door, then turns the lights out again.)
JANEWAY: What do you want?
CHAKOTAY: You told me you were moving out. I needed a place to hide.
JANEWAY: Jaffen knows where I am. He'll come looking for me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm hoping you won't tell him I'm here.
JANEWAY: They say you had something to do with the disappearance of a woman at the plant.
CHAKOTAY: I did. Her name's B'Elanna. She was brought to this planet against her will. Something was done to her so she'd forget her real life.
JANEWAY: And what, you helped her get home?
CHAKOTAY: That's right. There are other people in this city who I'm also trying to help. I'm not here to hurt anyone. You have to trust me.
JANEWAY: You're pointing a weapon at me.
(He puts it down.)
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, report me. But if you do, a lot of innocent people are going to suffer. All I'm asking for is a place to stay until my friends come back for me.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to do something about that arm.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]

(Torres looks at a photograph of herself and Paris.)
TORRES: The waiter from the tavern?
NEELIX: Lieutenant Tom Paris, our pilot, and B'Elanna Torres, our Chief Engineer. That picture was taken on your honeymoon.
TORRES: It isn't possible.
NEELIX: How else would we have it? It's an antique television. You gave it to Tom as a present.
TORRES: He watches cartoons.
NEELIX: Yes.
TORRES: How do I know that?
NEELIX: Because you're starting to remember.
(She kneels by the cot with the starship mobile above it.)
TORRES: I wondered why he was so protective of me.
NEELIX: I'll be outside if you need me.

[Power Distribution Plant]

(Janeway is stealing a medical instrument.)
SEVEN: Your shift ended three hours ago.
JANEWAY: My friend Jaffen. Employee one three two six. He cut himself.
SEVEN: Removing property from these premises is not permitted.
JANEWAY: I know, but he's just too stubborn to go to the hospital. I promise I'll have it back first thing in the morning.
(Seven sees the supervisor leave his office.)
SEVEN: Be sure that you do.

[Supervisor's office]

SEVEN: Display the personnel file for employee eight five eight three.
COMPUTER: Access restricted. Security clearance verified.
SEVEN: Display all medical and historical data for this employee's species.
COMPUTER: Data unavailable.
SEVEN: List all files accessed by this employee since he's been here.
COMPUTER: Personnel files. Employee eight five eight two. Nozowo, Kashimuro. Employee eight five eight four. Janeway, Kathryn. Employee eight five eight five. McKenzie, William. Employee eight five eight six. Hansen, Annika. Employee eight five eight seven. Anderson, Lydia. Employee eight five eight eight, Torres, B'Elanna. Employee

[Janeway's apartment]

(Janeway is using the instrument to tend Chakotay's wound.)
JANEWAY: You need a doctor.
CHAKOTAY: That'll have to wait till I'm back on Voyager.
JANEWAY: Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: My ship.
JANEWAY: You live onboard?
CHAKOTAY: For almost seven years.
JANEWAY: Don't you ever want to stay in one place?
CHAKOTAY: You seem happy here.
JANEWAY: I've got a good job.
CHAKOTAY: Ever consider doing something more challenging?
JANEWAY: My job's challenging enough.
CHAKOTAY: You monitor reactor coils, right? You're obviously a very capable woman. You could probably run that power plant.
JANEWAY: Why would I want all that responsibility?
(Chakotay's sub-dermal communicator chirps three times.)
JANEWAY: What's that?
CHAKOTAY: My people are trying to contact me. Chakotay here.
KIM [OC]: Are you okay, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: For the time being. Can you get me out of here?
KIM [OC] No, sir.

[Bridge]

KIM: We're eight light years away.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: How are you transmitting this signal that far?
EMH: We're using a triaxialating frequency on a covariant

[Janeway's apartment]

EMH [OC]: Subspace band. It was B'Elanna's idea.
CHAKOTAY: I take it she's feeling better.
EMH [OC]: She's responded well to treatment.
KIM [OC]: Have you located anyone else from the crew?
CHAKOTAY: As a matter of fact, I'm sitting with Captain Janeway right now.
KIM [OC]: How is she?
CHAKOTAY: A little suspicious, just like B'Elanna was at first. How soon can you get back into transporter range?
KIM [OC]: We need

[Bridge]

KIM: A couple more days to finish repairs. What about the shield grid?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I have an idea how to shut it down.

[Janeway's apartment]

CHAKOTAY: Until I get back to you, let's maintain comm. silence, just in case we're being monitored.
KIM [OC]: Understood. Good luck, Commander.
JANEWAY: Why did you call me captain?
CHAKOTAY: Because that's who you are.
JANEWAY: That's absurd. So what are you saying, that I was brought here by force too? That my memories were manipulated?
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds strange.
JANEWAY: Helping you was a mistake.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to me. There are more then a hundred members of Voyager's crew working at that power plant. Your crew. And when our ship gets here I'll be able to prove it to you. Look, I don't want to force you to do anything you don't want to, but don't you at least want to know the truth? Let me prove who I am. Hand me that dermal regenerator.
(He waves it in front of his face. The bony ridges vanish and the tattoo reappears.)
JANEWAY: We're the same race.
CHAKOTAY: We're more than that. We're friends.

[Jaffen's apartment]

JAFFEN: Am I hearing you correctly? You're actually helping this man? He abducted one of the workers.
JANEWAY: She's a member of his crew.
JAFFEN: Right, and you're the captain. Don't you see? He's trying to convince you that you'll have a better life if you go with him. Do you want to go with him?
JANEWAY: No.
JAFFEN: Then why are you risking everything we have?

[Janeway's apartment]

(Chakotay is pacing when the door opens.)
CHAKOTAY: I was starting to think  
(But it is Yerid with two security guards.)
YERID: Stay where you are.
(Chakotay makes a grab for his gun, but gets shot in the stomach.)

[Hospital]

(Chakotay is shown pictures of Torres and Neelix.)
CHAKOTAY: I don't know them.
YERID: I think you do, and I think you were involved in their disappearance.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not the man you're looking for.
YERID: Yes, the witness' description doesn't fit you exactly, but I'm sure that'll be explained once the doctor here finds evidence of dermal regeneration. What is it?
(The lady's scan has revealed something else.)
SURGEON: Some kind of communications device implanted under his skin.
YERID: Remove it.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to me. You and I have something in common.
YERID: Oh?
CHAKOTAY: We're both investigating disappearances. If you answer my questions, I'll answer yours.
SECURITY: I have an order to transfer this patient to Division six.
YERID: Division six?
SURGEON: Neuropathology?
SECURITY: We believe that he's mentally ill.
CHAKOTAY: He's lying. How could they know that? They've never examined me.
YERID: I'll come with you.
SECURITY: I'm sorry, sir, but my orders are to bring him for immediate treatment.
YERID: This man is a suspect in a serious crime. I'm not letting him out of my sight.
SECURITY: If you check that order, you'll see it's been approved by the Director of Investigations.
(Chakotay is wheeled away strapped to a gurney.)
CHAKOTAY: My real name is Chakotay. I'm an officer aboard the Federation starship Voyager. Members of my crew were abducted and their memories were altered, and they were put to work here. I can give you names, descriptions. Listen to me!

[Mess hall]

TORRES: Smells good.
NEELIX: Pancakes with maple syrup are your favourite breakfast. You know, sometimes food is like time travel. You inhale an aroma, take a bite of something and suddenly, bam! You're back at the moment you first tasted it.
TORRES: They're good. I'm not experiencing time travel.
NEELIX: What are you reading?
TORRES: Personal logs.
NEELIX: Do you remember recording any of them?
TORRES: They're not mine. They're Tom's.
NEELIX: Those are supposed to be private.
TORRES: Well, he is my husband.
NEELIX: What do they say?
TORRES: They're private. But the way he describes me.
NEELIX: He loves you.
TORRES: I guess so.
NEELIX: How do you feel?
TORRES: It's still a little foggy.
NEELIX: That fog should lift as soon as the Doctor finishes your treatments.
TORRES: Yeah, but what about the guy who recorded these logs?

[Ready room]

(The EMH is seated behind the captain's desk.)
EMH: I've been analysing our scans of the Quarren patrol ships that attacked us, and I think I've devised a way of evading their sensors.
KIM: You do have a knack for tactical planning.
EMH: That's something I've been meaning to discuss with you. Once we've succeeded in this mission, and I'm certain we will, I'd like you to help me programme a new medical hologram.
KIM: You don't like the idea of going back to your old job now that you've had a taste of command.
EMH: I'm a skilled officer.
KIM: No offence, Doc, but that skill was programmed into you.
EMH: Yes.
KIM: I'm sure once you're back to your old self, you'll be happy being a full-time doctor again. Commander Chakotay's hailing us. We're receiving you, sir. Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'm having trouble with my transceiver. This may be to last chance we have to talk.
KIM: What's your status?

[Quarren Medical Facility]

(Chakotay is in the brainwashing helmet.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm almost ready to shut down the shield grid. I'm sending you encrypted instructions. They'll tell you where and when to enter orbit.
KIM [OC]: We have it, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay out.
(The device is removed.)
KADAN: Well, now you that you know where to find Voyager
COYOTE: I'll have three ships with me. They won't escape again.
SUPERVISOR: If you'd done your job the first time, we wouldn't have a problem now.
(Coyote leaves)
KADAN: Don't you have patients to attend to?
RAVOC: Yes, sir. I've been thinking. This is the second person we've admitted with dysphoria syndrome in two days and they both work at the power plant. Maybe we should issue a health alert, examine the rest of the workers.
KADAN: Do you think I'm incompetent?
RAVOC: Sir?
KADAN: This man is in charge of personnel at the power facility. I've informed him of the situation.
SUPERVISOR: We're already taking steps to ensure the safety of all our employees.
RAVOC: I'm sorry to have bothered you.
KADAN: No need to apologise, Doctor. Your concern for your patients is admirable. But don't worry. This man is already responding to treatment. I expect a full recovery.

[Bar]

YERID: Why would this Tuvok be collecting information about his co-workers?
SEVEN: I don't know. But the name on one of those files is B'Elanna Torres. They both began working at the plant on the same day along with one hundred thirty six others, including myself.
YERID: What's unusual about that?
SEVEN: More than a hundred skilled employees, most of them the same species, acquired in a single day, during a labour shortage. You'll also note that every one of them was processed with the Central Hospital when they arrived.
YERID: It's routine for new workers to be examined.
SEVEN: Yes, by Quarantine Control. but everyone on this list all of them were processed through Division six.
YERID: You came through Neuropathology?
SEVEN: That's what the records indicate, but I don't remember being there.
YERID: What do you expect me to do?
SEVEN: You can start by interviewing Mister Tuvok. You'll find him at the hospital.
YERID: Why is he there?
SEVEN: He became emotionally unstable.
YERID: Even if I wanted to help you, I couldn't.
SEVEN: Why not?
YERID: The Director of Investigations relieved me of duty this morning.
PARIS: Yerid? I thought that was you. Have you found out anything about B'Elanna?
SEVEN: He can't assist you. He's been relieved of duty.
PARIS: Oh.
SEVEN: This man's also in Tuvok's file.
PARIS: What file?
SEVEN: Why don't you tell him?
PARIS: Tell me what?
YERID: I can't go back to the hospital and start asking questions. I'd be reported.
SEVEN: Maybe I can help.

[Ravoc's consulting room]

SEVEN: Recently, I've been
RAVOC: I'm a doctor. You can trust me.
SEVEN: I've been experiencing some disturbing thoughts. I don't believe it's anything serious, but I would like to speak with someone.
RAVOC: Well, you've come to the right place.
SEVEN: Guest labour code green. Employee eight five eight six.
RAVOC: Hansen, Annika. You've been a patient here before.
SEVEN: Yes, when I first arrived.
RAVOC: You were treated for dysphoria syndrome.
SEVEN: I don't recall that.
RAVOC: These disturbing thoughts you mentioned. Would you characterise them as hallucinations?
SEVEN: What's the cause of this syndrome?
RAVOC: We're conducting studies to determine that. Fortunately, we have one of the foremost experts on the condition working here.
SEVEN: I'd like to speak with this expert.
RAVOC: Doctor Kadan's very busy.
SEVEN: So am I. Perhaps I should return when he's free.
RAVOC: Wait here. I'll find him.
(Ravoc leaves. Seven promptly hacks into his computer.)

[Jaffen's apartment]

JAFFEN: Yes?
YERID: My name is Yerid. I'm from Criminal Investigations.
JAFFEN: how can I help you?
YERID: Kathryn Janeway?
JANEWAY: Yes?
YERID: Do you know this man?
(Yeridl shows her a picture of Chakotay.)
JANEWAY: No.
YERID: I thought maybe you'd met him.
JANEWAY: Why?
YERID: He was found in your former living quarters in possession of a dermal regenerator that you removed from the plant.
JAFFEN: I was the one who helped him.
JANEWAY: Jaffen. He said he was from a starship, and that members of his crew had been abducted.
JAFFEN: He was obviously lying.
YERID: I want to know everything he told you.

[Ravoc's consulting room]

KADAN: How could she just walk out?
RAVOC: She was a voluntary patient. There was no reason for security to stop her. She accessed sixty four restricted files, all of them for people diagnosed with dysphoria syndrome. According to the records, those patients were all admitted on the same day, and you're listed as the attending physician in every case.
KADAN: Oh, yes, I remember. Quite, quite an outbreak.
RAVOC: You've never mentioned it.
KADAN: Well, I'm sorry if I haven't kept you properly informed about my patients.
RAVOC: Everyone of them was discharged to the main Power Authority. That supervisor you were talking to, that's where he worked.
KADAN: I explained that to you. I was informing him about a potential health threat.
RAVOC: That plant worker, Amal Kotay. He claimed that his friends had been abducted and put to work after having their memories altered.
KADAN: What are you implying?
RAVOC: You're making false diagnoses. Selectively changing what people remember, and then sending them to work at the power plant.
KADAN: Very good, Doctor.
RAVOC: Why?
KADAN: A physician with more experience would be able to see this in the larger context. The true public health threat is the labour shortage, and the only cure is to find more skilled workers.
RAVOC: We're doctors. We're not supposed to harm patients.
KADAN: We're helping them to lead productive, happy lives.
RAVOC: By altering their memories?
KADAN: The treatment I provide improves their lives and makes them better workers. In turn, our economy benefits.
RAVOC: You're profiting from this, aren't you?
KADAN: Doesn't a physician deserve to be compensated for his services?
RAVOC: I'll report you.
KADAN: To whom? My research is funded by the Ministry of Health.
RAVOC: Well, Criminal Investigations, then.
KADAN: As you may recall, the Director of Investigations was the one who ordered Amal Kotay be placed under my care.
RAVOC: Does everyone know about this?
KADAN: Not everyone. Just a few trusted associates. The question is, are you going to be one of them?

[Bar]

(A security man is showing a picture of Seven to Paris.)
SECURITY: She's considered dangerous.
PARIS: She's never been in here.
SECURITY: You're sure?
PARIS: I don't think I'd forget that face.
SECURITY: If you do see her, report it immediately. She needs to be hospitalised.
(The security men leave.)
PARIS: It's safe now.
(Janeway, Seven, Yerid and Jaffen come out of a back room.)
SEVEN: Thank you.
PARIS: Well, if you really want to thank me, you can tell me what's going on.
SEVEN: It appears this Chakotay was telling the truth.
JAFFEN: So every worker at the plant had their memories altered?
SEVEN: I don't believe it's every worker. Your name didn't appear in Doctor Kadan's patient files, But mine did. So did yours.
PARIS: We should report this to the authorities.
YERID: I'll need more evidence before I start making accusations.
JANEWAY: Chakotay said he had proof of my real identity aboard a ship called Voyager.
SEVEN: How can we locate it?
JANEWAY: When his crew contacted him, they were using a triaxialating frequency on a covariant subspace band.
SEVEN: There's a subspace transponder at the power plant.
JANEWAY: I'm going back to the plant to try to contact this ship. I understand if you don't want to be involved.
JAFFEN: I've been involved from the moment I met you.
SEVEN: If I were to return to the hospital in your custody, it would give us an opportunity to help Chakotay and Tuvok.

[Quarren Medical Facility]

(Seven is lying on a bed.)
YERID: I had to sedate her. She wouldn't come voluntarily.
KADAN: Her condition's obviously worsened. I'll treat her.
YERID: There are some other patients I'd like to interview.
(Yerid shows Kadan a list.)
KADAN: These people can't be disturbed.
(Yerid pulls a gun. Kadan tries to move away but Seven grabs his wrist.)
SEVEN: I suggest you comply.

[Power Distribution Plant]

JAFFEN: Be careful.
(He stands guard while Janeway uses the subspace communications.)

[Bridge]

NEELIX: We're being hailed.
EMH: On screen.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Starship Voyager
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Why don't you just call me Kathryn?
KIM: Yes, ma'am. Where's Commander Chakotay?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Hospitalised.

[Power Distribution Plant]

JANEWAY: He told me you had proof of who some of us really are.
TORRES [on screen]: We do.
JANEWAY: You're the woman who was abducted.
TORRES [on screen]: Chakotay was supposed to deactivate the shield grid so we could transport you and the others to safety. If you could find a way to shut down main power, the shield grid will go down too.
KIM [on screen]: Will you help us?

[Bridge]

EMH: We're under attack. Three ships.

[Power Distribution Plant]

KIM [on screen]: Please, shut down the shield.
(The transmission ends. An alarm is sounding. Jaffen is not standing guard any more.)
JANEWAY: Jaffen?
SUPERVISOR: Stop!
(Janeway is trapped on a walkway by two guards.)
SUPERVISOR: Don't move!
(Janeway jumps down from walkway.)
SECURITY: Stay where you are.
(He gets sedated by Jaffen, who takes his gun and shoots at the others. Janeway and Jaffen hide behind a console.)
JAFFEN: I hope you didn't think I abandoned you.
JANEWAY: Never occurred to me. We need to shut down the main generators.

[Bridge]

KIM: So much for evading their sensors.
EMH: The only way they could've found us is if they knew exactly where to look.
TORRES: Transporters are offline.

[Power Distribution Plant]

WOMAN: Evacuate.
MAN: I'm getting it shut down.
JAFFEN: We'll never get to the generator controls.
JANEWAY: Maybe we don't have to.
JAFFEN: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: If I can make the computer think the core is going to overload, the main power should automatically shut down.

[Quarren Medical Facility]

(Kadan brings Yerid and Seven to where Chakotay and others are being brainwashed.)
YERID: Ask them to give us some privacy.
KADAN: You're dismissed.
YERID: Disconnect them.
SEVEN: Doctor Ravoc. Why is this man here?
KADAN: Dysphoria syndrome.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: We're losing shields.
KIM: Any advice from your tactical database?
EMH: Nothing relevant.
KIM: How many escape pods do we have left?
TORRES: Five.
KIM: Stand by to eject three of them.
EMH: I don't think abandoning ship is the answer.
KIM: Neither do I. Can you create a dampening field around the briefing room that'll mask our lifesigns?
EMH: I believe so. Why?
KIM: Watch and learn.
(Coyote tractors the escape pods.)
COYOTE [on viewscreen]: Your crew's abandoned you again. I suggest you surrender your vessel.
EMH: You should realise by now that I'm not programmed to do that.
(The escape pods explode, disabling the attackers. The organics come out of the briefing room.)
EMH: Bravo, Ensign.
KIM: B'Elanna, I need those transporters.

[Power Distribution Plant]

JAFFEN: You'd better hurry up.
JANEWAY: Come on, do it.
COMPUTER: Warning. Core overload detected. Initiating emergency shutdown.
(The whole city plunges into darkness.)

[Bridge]

NEELIX: The shield grid's failing.
KIM: B'Elanna?
TORRES: Transporters are coming online now.
(Seven is beamed away, then Chakotay and Tuvok. Janeway is taken from Jaffen's side.)

ECH log, supplemental. All the crew have been transported back to Voyager. Thanks to my experience with Lieutenant Torres, their treatment is proceeding rapidly. While they're recovering I still have a few command duties left to perform.

[Briefing room]

AMBASSADOR: If it weren't for your efforts, this whole conspiracy might never have been uncovered.
KIM: What'll happen to the workers?
YERID: Well, we've identified several thousand of Doctor Kadan's patients. Once they're treated, they'll be repatriated.
EMH: We appreciate everything you've done.
NEELIX: This way.

[Torres-Paris's quarters]

(Paris is watching old cartoons on the TV set, and eating popcorn. Torres kisses him on the cheek.)
PARIS: What's that for?
TORRES: For taking care of me, even when you didn't know who I was.
(Then she punches his arm.)
PARIS: Ow! What was that for?
TORRES: Flirting with your customers.
PARIS: I was a victim of mind control.

[Ready room]

JAFFEN: I can see why you'd rather live here.
JANEWAY: I'd offer you a position. I could always use another skilled Engineer. But as the captain, it wouldn't really be appropriate for me to
JAFFEN: Fraternise with a member of your crew. Well, at least my memories weren't tampered with. According to the medical reports, I really did come to Quarra looking for a better life. And now that I've been promoted, I guess I've succeeded.
JANEWAY: Promotion?
JAFFEN: They had to replace our shift supervisor. Something about acquiring workers illegally.
JANEWAY: Congratulations. You deserve it.
JAFFEN: I thought you might like these back, to remind you of our time together.
JANEWAY: I won't need souvenirs to remember you.
(They embrace.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain on the bridge.
(Janeway takes her seat.)
CHAKOTAY: Ready to go?
JANEWAY: It may not have been real, Chakotay, but it felt like home. If you hadn't come after me, I never would've known that I had another life.
CHAKOTAY: Are you sorry I showed up?
JANEWAY: Not for a second. Resume course, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, sir.


S7 E18
Human Error
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 7 March 2001

(The metronome helps the pianist keep time to Chopin's Nocturne no 1 in E minor, opus 72. She is revealed to be Annika Hansen, the grown woman with no Borg implants.)

[Mess hall]
(A baby shower is in progress. Torres weighs a present in her hands.)
TORRES: Feels heavy. Baby's first tricorder?
TUVOK: Not exactly.
(Torres opens the box to reveal a pyramidical object decorated with er, pyramids.)
TORRES: Thank you, I'm sure she'll love it. What is it?
TUVOK: A pleenok. Vulcans use them to train their infants in primary logic.
PARIS: Never too early to train those synapses, eh, Tuvok? Let me see that. I love a good puzzle.
NEELIX: This one's from Mister Kim.
TORRES: Starfleet diapers.
(Disposable nappies with the Starfleet logo on them.)
KIM: Standard issue.
PARIS: Well, we know who to call if there's a containment breach.
(Seven is fully human here, too.)
JANEWAY: Now that your Borg implants have been removed, you might think about having children of your own one day.
SEVEN: One day. I have been considering some less radical changes in my personal life.
JANEWAY: Such as?
SEVEN: I realise I don't have a rank, but I would like to request a uniform.
JANEWAY: Consider it done. The Doctor tells me you don't need to regenerate any more. I can arrange some quarters for you, unless you enjoy curling up in the Cargo Bay.
SEVEN: A bed would be more comfortable. Since I arrived on Voyager, your guidance has been invaluable. Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: All I did was chart the course. You're the one who made the journey.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, it's traditional for everyone to share their best wishes for the baby. I thought you might like to start.
SEVEN: To the newest member of our crew. May all her desires be fulfilled except for one, so she'll always have something to strive for.
JANEWAY: Very good.
ALL: Hear, hear.
(Paris is struggling with the pleenok. He has it in pieces and cannot get it back together again.)
SEVEN: And may she inherit a sense of logic from her mother.
KIM: I'll drink to that.

[Bridge]

PARIS: That was strange.
CHAKOTAY: Care to explain?
PARIS: I wish I could. Long range sensors picked up an energy discharge, but now it's gone. There. There's another one.
TUVOK: They're occurring approximately five point nine light years ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: We're too far away to get a clear reading.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine.

[Mess hall]

SEVEN: Go ahead.
JANEWAY [OC]: Report to the Astrometrics lab.
SEVEN: Acknowledged. Computer, end programme.
(Seven returns to her semi-Borg self, and puts her hair back up as she leaves.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I wasn't able to find the cause of the discharges, but the region ahead contains unusual amounts of subspace radiation and metallic debris.
TUVOK: Vessels?
SEVEN: Not within range. But I'll have more data once we move closer.
JANEWAY: I see no reason to alter course. Keep an eye on your sensors.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Now, on to more pressing matters. Does B'Elanna suspect anything?
PARIS: Not a clue.
JANEWAY: Good. Mess hall, fourteen hundred hours, be on time. I don't want to spoil the surprise. I expect both of you to show up.
SEVEN: I'll be busy here.
PARIS: What's wrong, Seven? No baby showers in the Collective?
JANEWAY: I'm sure you can spare a few minutes.
(Janeway and Paris leave.)
TUVOK: If it's any consolation, I share your discomfort with social gatherings.
SEVEN: They seem to occur with alarming frequency.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix would argue that they improve morale.
SEVEN: I have been looking for ways to improve my social skills. Perhaps I'll attend.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]

(Human Seven in her Starfleet uniform, standing in an empty room.)
NEELIX: Well, it certainly is efficient. No clutter, plenty of room to move around. But it's a little impersonal, don't you think?
SEVEN: Explain.
NEELIX: Well, these are your quarters, Seven. They should reflect your individuality. How about a table and a couple of chairs? Give yourself a place to work, entertain guests. Try to add a little colour. Photographs, artwork, knick-knacks.
SEVEN: Knick-knacks?
NEELIX: Little things, like the wood carvings in Ensign Kim's quarters.
SEVEN: I've never been to Ensign Kim's quarters. But I suppose I could replicate some items and disperse them throughout the room.
NEELIX: That's a start. Some people like to display pictures of family and friends.
SEVEN: There's a photograph of my parents in the ship's database. I'll make a copy and place it in a frame.
NEELIX: Good, good.
SEVEN: A multispectral star chart might enhance this bulkhead.
NEELIX: Or a painting.
SEVEN: A painting of a star chart.
NEELIX: I was thinking of something more abstract, more artistic. Drapes. Nothing livens up a room like good window dressing. Not to mention the added privacy.
SEVEN: Privacy? We're in space.
NEELIX: You never know when we'll be docking at a crowded space port. But we'll have to make sure that they match the carpet. I'm thinking of a Talaxian mosaic. Tulaberry blue stripes with an orange inlay.
SEVEN: I appreciate your aesthetic insights, but I believe I can proceed on my own.
(Doorbell)
SEVEN: Enter.
(Chakotay is carrying a bag.)
CHAKOTAY: Am I interrupting?
SEVEN: Please come in.
CHAKOTAY: Love what you've done with the place.
SEVEN: We're in the process of decorating.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe this will help. Consider it a housewarming gift.
(Chakotay hands Seven a traditional netted loop of wood with dangling feathers.)
NEELIX: It's beautiful. What is it?
SEVEN: A dream catcher. According to Native American mythology, it wards off nightmares.
CHAKOTAY: I'm impressed.
SEVEN: I've familiarised myself with your culture.
CHAKOTAY: Now that you'll be sleeping instead of regenerating, I thought it might come in handy.
SEVEN: I'm sure it will. Thank you.
NEELIX: I'll let you two find a place to hang that, but it would look perfect right above the bed. Pleasant dreams.
(Neelix leaves.)
SEVEN: It was thoughtful of you to stop by.
CHAKOTAY: On move in day? I wouldn't miss it.
SEVEN: I suppose this makes you my inaugural guest. I'd be a negligent host if I didn't offer you a beverage. Tea?
CHAKOTAY: That might be difficult. No replicator.
SEVEN: Another flaw in the decor.
CHAKOTAY: I'll requisition one for you first thing tomorrow.
SEVEN: I'd appreciate that, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay. We're off duty. We can drop the formalities.
SEVEN: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I enjoyed your toast today. You've come a long way. I hope to see more.
SEVEN: You will.
CHAKOTAY: Good night.
SEVEN: Chakotay. As you might know I've taken an interest in culinary science. I'm preparing a meal tomorrow night, and I thought perhaps you could attend to evaluate my work.
CHAKOTAY: I'd be happy to.
SEVEN: Nineteen hundred hours?
CHAKOTAY: I'll bring the wine and the furniture.
SEVEN: Then you accept?
CHAKOTAY: It's a date.

[Sickbay]

EMH: (sings) Rock-a-bye baby, in the space dock. When the core blows, the shuttle will rock. When the hull breaks, the shuttle will fall. And down will come baby, shuttle and all.
SEVEN: Are you trying to soothe the infant, or traumatise her?
EMH: The lyrics are rather grim, but it's the melody they respond to. I recorded twenty nine in all, including a couple of Klingon lullabies. My favourite is 'quong vaj Ocht. Sleep, little warrior. I could tell by the look on their faces that my gift made quite an impression.
SEVEN: No doubt.
EMH: I wish you'd been there. It was a lovely shower. Tom and B'Elanna were disappointed that you didn't attend.
SEVEN: I was occupied.
EMH: Are you experiencing any shoulder pain?
SEVEN: Yes.
EMH: Hmm. Your biradial clamp is out of alignment by point three microns. I'm afraid it will have to be repaired.
SEVEN: Can't you simply extract the component?
EMH: Not if you want to keep using that arm. I know it's an inconvenience, but until we can find a way to remove your cybernetic systems, they'll have to be maintained. It's a minor procedure. We might as well take care of it now.
SEVEN: I prefer to wait.
EMH: We'll be done in an hour.
SEVEN: I have research to complete.
EMH: Oh. I suppose we can put it off until next week's physical. I also noticed that your electrolyte levels are down by twelve percent. Have you missed any regeneration cycles?
SEVEN: Last night.
EMH: Don't tell me. More research? This must be some project. Mind if I ask what you're working on?
SEVEN: It's complicated.
EMH: How do you mean?
SEVEN: My personal life is none of your concern.
EMH: I wasn't aware you had a personal life.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: It was an energy discharge, two hundred thousand kilometres starboard.
TUVOK: It produced a level nine shockwave.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of weapon?
TUVOK: Possibly.
PARIS: Another one, five million kilometres to port.
TUVOK: A shockwave is approaching.
JANEWAY: Full power to the shields.
(The shockwave hits them broadside on.)
KIM: Our warp field's destabilising.
TUVOK: I'm detecting another. Distance, fifty thousand kilometres.
JANEWAY: Turn our bow into the wavefront. It'll minimise the damage.
PARIS: Sorry, Captain. There wasn't enough time.
KIM: We've lost warp drive.
TUVOK: I'm reading another. Distance, twenty six million kilometres. Too far to pose a threat.
CHAKOTAY: If they are weapons, they don't seem to be directed at us.
JANEWAY: Or whoever's firing them is a lousy shot.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Astrometric sensors recorded the explosions. I believe it's a long range subspace warhead. The debris in this region suggests that dozens have been fired in the last several weeks.
TUVOK: The warhead destroyed something. What was it?
SEVEN: It appeared to be an unmanned probe.
JANEWAY: This is all very intriguing, but I'd just as soon get out of here before we cross paths with another one of these things. Where do we stand on repairs?
TUVOK: Subspace radiation from the explosions is making it difficult to create a stable warp field. Lieutenant Torres estimates forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Can you find a way to detect the warheads before they emerge from subspace?
SEVEN: I believe so. The weapons create minor gravimetric distortions as they approach the subspace barrier. But I need to recalibrate my sensors to isolate the effect.
JANEWAY: Do it. Even a few seconds' warning would help us.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
(Later, Icheb enters.)
SEVEN: Your duty shift doesn't begin for two hours.
ICHEB: The Doctor sent me to relieve you early. He wants you to spend more time regenerating.
SEVEN: I see he's enlisted an ally.
ICHEB: Don't kill the messenger. Sophocles, Oedipus Rex. I've been studying Earth literature as a part of my Academy training.
SEVEN: Continue these scans of the subspace barrier. Look for any gravimetric distortions.
(Seven returns to Cargo Bay two and activates her alcove. Instead of stepping in, she leaves.)

[Engineering]

TORRES: Run another diagnostic on the injector ports. Make sure they're aligned.
KIM: They're aligned, I checked.
TORRES: Check again. Come to join the party? We're trying to cold start the warp core for the fifteenth time.
SEVEN: Perhaps this will enhance your day. It's a belated gift for your baby shower. I apologise for my absence.
TORRES: Oh.
SEVEN: Proceed.
(Torres opens the box to reveal a pair of baby booties.)
SEVEN: They're lined with biothermal insulation. Your infant's feet will be protected even if the external temperature drops below minus forty degrees Celsius.
TORRES: Well, they're certainly unique. Thank you.
SEVEN: You're welcome. I wish to ask you a personal question.
TORRES: Shoot.
SEVEN: You have an appealing coiffure. What is your grooming regimen?
TORRES: You're asking me what I do with my hair?
SEVEN: Yes.
TORRES: Um, well, nothing too elaborate. Sonic shower, a little engine grease. Thinking about a new look?
SEVEN: Perhaps. I'll keep you apprised, if you'd like.
TORRES: Please do.
(Seven leaves.)
TORRES: Was that Seven of Nine?
KIM: There must be an alien intruder on board.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]

SEVEN: Computer, make the following modifications to holodeck file Seven of Nine alpha three, personal quarters.
COMPUTER: Modifications complete.
SEVEN: Begin programme.
(Human Seven is in a low-cut red dress, hair down. Piano music plays in the background, Chopin's Barcarolle.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You look perfect. Give me a hand with this?
SEVEN: I'm surprised your Starfleet training didn't include cork extraction.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I must have been sick that day. (The cork refuses to budge from the bottle neck.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Looks like wine's off the menu.
SEVEN: Unless you brought a phaser.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Never on the first date.
SEVEN: Assist me. Slice these vegetables transversally in five millimetre increments.
(Seven's pretend quarters include a kitchenette.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Aye, aye.
(Seven carrots for two people?)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: That smells delicious.
SEVEN: Our appetizer is braised leeks. Primary course, rack of lamb with wild rice.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No dessert?
SEVEN: Dessert will be a surprise.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I can't wait.
SEVEN: Does this contain enough sodium chloride for your taste?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Could use another point six milligrams. But you're the chef.
(She sucks a sample off his little finger.)
SEVEN: I concur. More salt.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Liszt? 
SEVEN: Chopin. I've discovered that classical music has intriguing mathematical properties.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Do you play an instrument?
SEVEN: The Doctor's been giving me piano lessons.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'd love to hear you play.
SEVEN: I require more practice.
(She looks at the way he is chopping the carrots.)
SEVEN: Your technique is flawed.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Sorry. I'm a replicator man.
SEVEN: Use your left hand to guide the food. Observe closely. Pay attention to the vegetable.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're beautiful when you're chopping. I don't mean to sound like an old holonovel, but you've got a wonderful smile.
SEVEN: It wasn't a smile. It was a smirk.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Oh no, it was a smile. I could check the internal sensors if you'd like.
SEVEN: Remain still.
(She strokes his face.)
SEVEN: You have an intriguing facial structure.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'll take that as a compliment.
(They kiss, long and slow.)
SEVEN: I require more practice.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're doing just fine.
(Seven hears an electric zizzing sound.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Nothing.

[Seven's dream]

(She's playing Chopin to the beat of a metronome, then kissing Chakotay.)
EMH: I wasn't aware you had a personal life.
(Seven sees her reflection in the mirror as her fully Borg self.)

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Seven of Nine.
(Seven wakes up next to Holo-Chakotay, on the couch. They are both fully clothed, though.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Seven, respond.
SEVEN: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Report to Astrometrics. We've found something.
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Good morning.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: You've found something?
CHAKOTAY: At first, we thought it was another one of the probes. Then Icheb picked up an automated transmission. It's a warning beacon.
VOICE [OC]: You have entered subspace munitions range four three four. Evacuate immediately.
ICHEB: Apparently, this entire region is an alien testing ground.
CHAKOTAY: We've been sending out emergency hails, but so far no response. Whoever's conducting these tests could be dozens of light years away. Any progress detecting their warheads?
SEVEN: Not yet.
CHAKOTAY: You seem a little distracted.
SEVEN: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: It's not like you to be late for a duty shift. Rough night?
SEVEN: Not at all.
CHAKOTAY: I'll be on the bridge if you find anything.
(Chakotay leaves.)
ICHEB: Better late than never. Titus Livius, A History of Rome.
SEVEN: You're relieved. Get some rest.

[Holodeck - Music room]

(Seven is playing the piano to the beat of a metronome, as Chakotay watches.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Bravo.
SEVEN: You approve?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Approve? I'm amazed. I was expecting Chopsticks. I had no idea you were so good.
SEVEN: The Doctor's an efficient instructor.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: It won't be long before you're giving a recital for the entire crew.
SEVEN: The Doctor did suggest that I accompany him during his next operatic performance. Your turn.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Unfortunately, I don't play. But I'd love to hear you again and this is one of my favourites.
(He puts some sheet music on the stand. Seven starts the metronome and plays Schumann's Of Foreign Countries and Peoples. Chakotay stops the metronome.)
SEVEN: You want me to stop?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No. I want you to play.
SEVEN: I don't understand.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Look, your technique is flawless. But try to put a little more heart into the piece. More of yourself.
(She starts again, but stops after a few bars.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: That's all right. Keep going. Tell me what you're feeling.
SEVEN: My tempo is erratic.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Not what you're thinking, what you're feeling. Your emotions.
SEVEN: Frustration, anxiety.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Stop thinking about the notes. Just play.
SEVEN: I can't.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Yes, you can. Don't you see what's happening? The metronome is holding you back. It gives you a sense of order, but it also cuts you off from your feelings. Remember when you first came aboard? The thought of disconnecting from the hive mind terrified you. This is no different. It doesn't have to be perfect.
(Seven resumes playing the piece.)

[Bridge]

(More missiles are being tested on the subspace mines.)
TUVOK: Eight hundred thousand kilometres off the starboard bow.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We need those sensor calibrations.

[Holodeck - Music room]

SEVEN: I'll need a moment to return to my station.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: That would be a good idea. 
PARIS: Hull fracture, deck twelve.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine, report.
SEVEN [OC]: Stand by, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris, isolate subspace band omicron theta.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Acknowledged.
SEVEN [OC]: Direct your sensors to

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Coordinates one seven eight mark two six.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Nothing there.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Correction, one seven eight mark three six.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I can see them. Two warheads are about to emerge. Adjusting course.
JANEWAY: Full power to the forward shields.
PARIS: Impact in five, four, three, two.
(The shockwave washes over Voyager as she meets it head on.)
PARIS: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Why wasn't Seven at her post?
CHAKOTAY: Good question. Maybe you should ask her.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: It was your responsibility to locate those warheads.
SEVEN: I succeeded.
JANEWAY: Not before we took heavy damage. You told Chakotay you'd have those sensor calibrations hours ago.
SEVEN: The work took longer than I anticipated.
JANEWAY: It might've gone faster if you'd stayed at your post, as you were ordered to do.
SEVEN: I didn't realise I was confined to the Astrometrics lab.
JANEWAY: You were on duty. This isn't the first time you've left your station over the past few days. Holodeck two? You've logged a lot of time in there. Mind if I ask why? Well, it must be something important, Seven. Forty nine hours in six days.
SEVEN: I was running a simulation.
JANEWAY: Of what?
SEVEN: A new gravimetric array I've been developing. I wanted to perfect the design before I brought it to you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your efforts to improve our systems, but I can't have you dividing your time right now. When the ship's on alert I expect you to perform your duties. If you need to leave your post, inform Commander Chakotay. Understood?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain. I apologise for my lapse in judgment.
JANEWAY: We all make mistakes, Seven. I've even been known to make a few myself. It sounds intriguing, your new gravimetric array. When this crisis is over I'd be happy to take a look. Maybe I can lend a hand.

[Astrometrics lab]

ICHEB: I've analysed the sensor data from that last barrage. I've refined your detection method. We'll be able to see the weapons ten point three seconds earlier.
SEVEN: The Captain will be pleased.
ICHEB: Have I offended you?
SEVEN: No. You've done nothing wrong. I was negligent in my duties. As a result, Voyager was nearly destroyed. I was hoping you could provide a quotation to help alleviate my guilt.
ICHEB: I, I can't think of one, but I'd be happy to search the database.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. Stay here until I return.
ICHEB: Where are you going?
SEVEN: To correct an error.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]

SEVEN: Computer, activate Chakotay simulation. (Doorbell.)
SEVEN: Come in.
(Chakotay enters with flowers and a plate under a cover.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I hope you're not allergic. Antarian moon blossoms, extremely rare. I had to smuggle them out of Airponics. Don't tell Neelix. I thought I'd cook for you tonight. How does roasted chicken sound? I slaved over the replicator for hours. Not hungry?
SEVEN: I called you here to thank you.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: For what?
SEVEN: The past few days have been memorable.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: To say the least. You're ending this.
SEVEN: In a manner of speaking, yes.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Why?
SEVEN: Our relationship is interfering with my responsibilities on Voyager.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I could speak to the Captain, have her cut back on your duty shifts. Seven, the past few days have been more than memorable. They've been an important step forward for both of us. Don't throw that away.
SEVEN: I'm sorry, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're making a mistake.
SEVEN: No, I'm trying to correct one.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Ask yourself why you want to end this. Is it out of a sense of duty, or something else? Every time you move closer to your emotions, you back away. Like hiding behind that metronome.
SEVEN: Your analogy is flawed.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Is it? I think you're afraid that embracing your humanity will make you weak, less than perfect. But think about what you stand to gain.
SEVEN: It's irrelevant.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No, it's not. Real intimacy with another person? Nothing's more relevant.
(Seven hears the little noise again.)
SEVEN: I must return to my station.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Stay here with me.
SEVEN: This ship needs me.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: So do I.
(That sound again.)
SEVEN: I can't function this way.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're not a drone anymore, you're human.
SEVEN: Stop!
(The noise becomes constant.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Seven, what's wrong?
(Seven picks up her comm. badge and activates it.)
SEVEN: Sickbay, medical emergency.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Seven? Computer, locate Seven of Nine.
COMPUTER: Seven of Nine is in Holodeck two.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]

(The EMH appears.)
EMH: What happened?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: We were having an argument, then she just collapsed.
EMH: Her cortical node is shutting down. She's going into neural shock. And what happened to her facial implants?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I thought you removed all her cybernetic systems.
(The penny drops.)
EMH: Computer, end programme.
(Normality is resumed. Electricity plays over Seven's cortical implant.)

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: Commander?
EMH: If you're looking for your other holographic friend, he's offline at the moment. Your cortical node began to shut down. Fortunately, I managed to stabilise it before there was any permanent damage.
SEVEN: It was functioning properly when you examined me two days ago.
EMH: I'm going to run a diagnostic on your entire cortical array, but it might help if I knew what you were doing before you collapsed. Did you suffer a physical injury of some kind?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Were you exposed to any unusual radiation?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: What exactly were you doing in there?
SEVEN: Research.
EMH: That simulation of Commander Chakotay mentioned that the two of you were having an argument. Was that part of your research? I couldn't help but notice that you'd created some quarters for yourself. A new dress, dinner for two.
SEVEN: I trust you'll respect doctor-patient confidentiality.
EMH: Of course.
SEVEN: I've been conducting simulations to explore different aspects of my humanity.
EMH: Such as?
SEVEN: Social activities, friendships with the crew, intimate relations.
EMH: I take it our First Officer is your romantic interest.
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay seemed like an appropriate choice. He has many admirable qualities.
EMH: So he does. What prompted all this?
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero. I've been trying to recreate some of the experiences I had there. Ever since it was destroyed, my life has seemed incomplete. I wanted to feel those emotions again.
EMH: Well, this is encouraging. You might be ready to start forming deeper relationships. I'm proud of you, Seven.
SEVEN: Your pride is misplaced. I intend to delete the programmes.
EMH: Why?
SEVEN: I can no longer perform my duties efficiently. My personal life has become a distraction.
EMH: It's supposed to be a distraction. You simply have to find the right balance between work and recreation.
SEVEN: Inform me when you finish the diagnostic.
EMH: Seven. For what it's worth, you have excellent taste. Your quarters. They suited you.

[Engineering]

KIM: Antimatter flow stable, injector ports aligned. That should do it.
TORRES: Torres to the bridge. Looks like we've got warp drive back.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Well done. Tom.
PARIS: With pleasure.
(Voyager goes to warp.)
PARIS: I'm detecting another subspace warhead.
JANEWAY: Range?
PARIS: Twelve million kilometres, closing from astern.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Where's the target probe?
PARIS: It's on a totally different trajectory.
TUVOK: When we engaged the engines, the warhead must have diverted from its target and locked onto our warp signature.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
PARIS: It's matching our course. Eight million kilometres.
JANEWAY: Can you get a weapon's lock?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Photon torpedoes, full spread.
(Four wasted torpedoes.)
TUVOK: Our torpedoes have been neutralised.
PARIS: Five million kilometres.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Here, Captain.
JANEWAY: Can you get me anything on

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: The warhead's internal circuitry? 
SEVEN: Stand by. I have it.
JANEWAY [OC]: What can you tell me about the detonator?
SEVEN: The weapon is armed with proximity resonance circuitry.
JANEWAY [OC]: What's the activation frequency?
SEVEN: Four point eight four gigahertz.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I may be able to disarm it with an anti-resonance pulse.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Two million kilometres.
TUVOK: Initiating the pulse.
JANEWAY: Seven, status?

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The warhead's rotating its activation frequency. It's still armed.

[Bridge]

PARIS: One million kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Can you compensate?
TUVOK: Negative.
SEVEN [OC]: Captain, I believe I can disarm

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The warhead.
JANEWAY [OC]: How?
SEVEN: By extracting the detonator with our transporter.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: At this velocity? The device is too small. You'd never get a lock.
SEVEN [OC]: I can use the sub

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Micron imager to focus our targeting scanners. Please give me transporter control.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Eight hundred thousand.
(Janeway nods to Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: All right, Seven, it's up you.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I have a lock. Energising. The detonator's protected by tritanium shielding. I can penetrate it, but not at this distance. We'll have to wait until it's closer.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Five hundred thousand.
JANEWAY: Status.
SEVEN [OC]: Not yet, Captain.
PARIS: Four

[Astrometrics lab]

PARIS [OC]: Three, two. Brace for impact!
(The missile falls apart on the hull.)

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Doctor. You've come to deliver unpleasant news.
EMH: Is it that obvious? I've completed my diagnostic. What you experienced was no malfunction. Your cortical node was designed to shut down your higher brain functions when you achieve a certain level of emotional stimulation.
SEVEN: Clarify.
EMH: It appears to be a fail-safe mechanism to deactivate drones who start to regain their emotions. Knowing the Borg, it makes perfect sense. Finding one's heart is the surest road to individuality.
SEVEN: I'm no longer linked to the hive mind.
EMH: The technology's built into your node. It simply remained dormant, until now.
SEVEN: Can you repair me?
EMH: Possibly. I've been thinking about a way to reconfigure the micro-circuitry. I won't lie to you, Seven. It would entail multiple surgeries, and the recovery might be difficult. But I believe we could eventually succeed. I'll prepare the surgical bay. We can begin tomorrow morning.
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Without the procedure, you won't be able to continue your simulations.
SEVEN: I've experienced enough humanity for the time being. They were only holographic fantasies, Doctor. An inefficient use of my time.
EMH: You don't really believe that.
SEVEN: The fail-safe device will insure that I'm no longer distracted.
EMH: That's the Borg talking, not you. As your physician. As your friend, I'm asking you to let me proceed.
SEVEN: I need to regenerate.
EMH: Seven.
SEVEN: Goodnight, Doctor.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Where's the fire?
SEVEN: Fire?
CHAKOTAY: You seem to be in a hurry.
SEVEN: I have to finish my report on the subspace warheads.
CHAKOTAY: The ship's out of danger, thanks to you. You've earned a break. Why don't you join me in the mess hall. Neelix is going to give a cooking lesson. Talaxian tenderloin in ten minutes.
SEVEN: I'm no longer interested in cooking.
CHAKOTAY: Then come for the company. B'Elanna's going to be there, Tuvok even promised to show up. It'll be fun.
SEVEN: I appreciate your offer. Another time perhaps.
CHAKOTAY: You know, you should try socialising with the crew a little more. It might do you some good.


S7 E19
Q2
Stardate: 54704.5
Original Airdate: 11 April 2001

[Ready room]
ICHEB: Though it was a blatant violation of the Prime Directive, Kirk saved the Pelosians from extinction, just as he had the Baezians and the Chenari many years earlier. Finally, in the year 2270, Kirk completed his historic five year mission and one of the greatest chapters in Starfleet history came to a close. A new chapter began when Kirk regained command of the Enterprise.
JANEWAY: How many more chapters are there?
ICHEB: Thirty four.
JANEWAY: This was supposed to be a twenty minute presentation.
ICHEB: I was trying to be thorough. I could shorten the report.
JANEWAY: That won't be necessary. You obviously know the subject matter. Congratulations, Cadet. You have just passed Early Starfleet History.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain.
(Icheb leaves. A young man in Starfleet command uniform is behind Janeway, played by John de Lancie's real son, Keegan.)
 I would have failed him. Kirk may have been a lowly human, but at least he had pizzazz. That report made him sound about as exciting as a Vulcan funeral dirge.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.
 Don't bother. I trapped your crew in a temporal loop. They keep experiencing the last thirty seconds over and over. Almost as monotonous as drone boy's essay.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
(Daddy is sitting behind her desk.)
Q: I know he's grown since you last saw him, Kathy, but don't tell me you can't see the family resemblance. This is my son, Q. I'm a little hurt you didn't recognise Junior. You are his godmother, after all.
JANEWAY: The last time I saw him, he was an infant.
JUNIOR: Four years ago, in human time. You called me adorable.
JANEWAY: You remember?
JUNIOR: I may have looked like an infant, but I was still a Q. Maybe you should have picked a better godparent.
Q: I wonder if it's too late to ask Jean-Luc?
JANEWAY: What do you want, Q?
Q: Well, Junior's taking a little vacation from the Continuum. I recommended he spent it with you.
JANEWAY: Why?
Q: Oh, he's always been fascinated by the old man's stories about humanity. I thought it was time he had some first hand experience.
JANEWAY: I am flattered that you would entrust me with your first born, but I really don't have time.
Q: He's as quiet as a Zizznian church mouse. You'll forget he's even here.
(Q disappears.)
JANEWAY: Well, if you're going to stay, we'll need to lay down a few ground rules.
JUNIOR: I make my own rules.
(Junior disappears.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm not detecting either Q.
JANEWAY: I want to be alerted if they resurface. Keep running scans.
JUNIOR: Scan, scan, scan. That's all you people ever do. I've been through every deck on this ship, and do you know what I've seen? Bipeds pushing buttons. Bipeds replacing relays. Bipeds running diagnostics. When are you going to do something interesting?
JANEWAY: Say hello to Q, everyone.
JUNIOR: We could fly into fluidic space and fight species 8472. Or we could detonate a few Omega molecules. What do you say?
JANEWAY: No.
JUNIOR: Twenty minutes observing humanity, I'm already bored. I guess I'm just going to have to amuse myself.
(Junior disappears.)
TORRES [OC]: Torres to the Captain. I need you in Engineering.

[Engineering]

(IIt's disco night round a colourful warp core. Strobe lighting, dancing girls, electronic beat music.)
JUNIOR: One dance, B'Elanna, that's all I ask. One dance.
(Janeway, Tuvok and Chakotay enter.)
TORRES: If he doesn't stop his little light show, the warp core's going to breach.
JUNIOR: Relax. It's a party.
JANEWAY: This party is over. Get your guests off my ship.
JUNIOR: I like you, Aunt Kathy. You've got gumption. But what you don't have is unlimited control of space, matter and time. Which means I give the orders around here.
(Junior snaps his fingers.)

[Corridor]

(Janeway, Tuvok, Torres and Chakotay appear.)
TUVOK: I could assemble a security team and attempt to take Engineering by force.
CHAKOTAY: We all know that wouldn't do any good.
TORRES: Besides, I'll bet that's exactly the kind of reaction he's hoping for.
JANEWAY: He's doing everything he can to get under our skin.
TUVOK: If we deny him the satisfaction of a response, he may become bored and return to the Continuum.

[Cargo Bay two]  

(Seven of Nine is working when her clothes vanish.)
JUNIOR: Talk about perfection.
SEVEN: If you're attempting to embarrass me, you won't succeed.
JUNIOR: I'm just observing humanity. Aren't you going to scamper away, make some futile attempt to cover yourself?
(She continues working. He returns her clothes, shakes his head and leaves.)

[Mess hall]

(Janeway goes to the wall replicator.)
JANEWAY: Coffee, black.
COMPUTER: Make it yourself.
NEELIX: You can thank Q's son. He thought the computer needed more personality.
JANEWAY: Charming.
(Janeway takes the mug of coffee from Neelix.)
NEELIX: I've been giving some thought to the Q situation. Maybe ignoring him isn't the best solution.
JANEWAY: I'm open to suggestions.
NEELIX: He may be omnipotent, but he's still a young man in need of guidance. Perhaps if someone were to approach him as a friend.
JANEWAY: You think he needs a mentor.
NEELIX: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Are you volunteering?
NEELIX: Well, I am good with children.
JANEWAY: Q is no ordinary child.
NEELIX: I'm no ordinary mentor.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Junior is watching a space fight on the screen, sitting in an easy chair with his feet up on the console. Neelix enters.)
JUNIOR: Can I help you, kitchen rat?
NEELIX: I thought you and I could spend some time together.
JUNIOR: Ah! Excellent manoeuvre.
NEELIX: What are you watching?
JUNIOR: What's it look like? It's a battle between the Vojeans and Wyngari.
NEELIX: We past through that region a few months ago. They were at peace.
JUNIOR: Not any more. Watch this.
(He snaps his fingers and brings another vessel into the fight.)
NEELIX: You have to stop this.
JUNIOR: It's not like there's anything else to do.
NEELIX: We could play Kadis-kot.
JUNIOR: Are there explosions in Kadis-kot?
NEELIX: Well, no.
JUNIOR: Then I'm not interested.
NEELIX: Instead of hurting people, maybe you could help them. The Wyngari are suffering a food shortage on their world. Maybe you could use your powers to
JUNIOR: You know what, Talaxian? You talk to much.

[Sickbay]

(Neelix no longer has a mouth.)
EMH: His jaw's been fused and his vocal cords removed. I might be able to undo some of the cosmetic damage, but only Q can restore his voice.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.
JUNIOR [OC]: I've got a surprise for you, Captain. Come see.

[Bridge]

(Junior is sitting in the Captain's chair.
JUNIOR: Q said I should pay attention to how you humans react under pressure.
(There are three attacking Borg Cubes on the viewscreen.)
JUNIOR: Is this enough pressure?
CHAKOTAY: We're venting plasma.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to aft shields and return fire.
JUNIOR: You're just prolonging the inevitable.
JANEWAY: We've defeated the Borg before. We'll do it again.
JUNIOR: Not this time.
TUVOK: Weapons are offline.
PARIS: I'm losing thrusters.
KIM: Shields are down.
(Borg beam in. Tuvok shoots one. Another is about to assimilate Janeway when - flash! The Borg are gone and Q is there, looking furious.)
JUNIOR: We were just getting to the good part!
Q: If the Continuum's told you once, they've told you a thousand times. Don't provoke the Borg! Now, I want you to give Aunt Kathy your word you won't do it again.
JANEWAY: Oh, he won't do it again because he's leaving. Now.
Q: Excuse us, son. The grown-ups need a moment in private.
(Q and Janeway vanish.)

[Ready room]

Q: He isn't so bad once you get to know him. He's just misunderstood.
JANEWAY: He tried to kill my crew.
Q: No one was hurt, I repaired the damage to your ship. I even gave your pet Talaxian his vocal cords back. Everything's exactly as it was.
JANEWAY: And how long do you think it will take your son to come up with another way to amuse himself? If you knew he was dangerous, why did you send him here? Ah, is this another lesson for humanity?
Q: It's supposed to be a lesson for him. Think back to my last visit. I made you the offer of a lifetime.
JANEWAY: Asking me to mate with you was hardly the offer of a lifetime.
Q: If you hadn't turned me down, I wouldn't have been forced to mate with that other Q.
JANEWAY: Oh, get to the point.
Q: My point is, Junior was suppose to inspire peace and compassion. But instead of order, he's brought chaos. He's been starting wars among innocent species, tampering with primordial gene pools, punching holes in the fabric of space time.
JANEWAY: Where's his mother been during all this?
Q: She's been so humiliated by his antics she's disowned him. She's blamed me for everything. I've managed to undo most of the damage, but that wasn't good enough for the Continuum. They're hounding me to straighten the boy out. That's why I brought him here. In hopes that your vaunted Starfleet ideals would rub off on him. Obviously, that hasn't happened.
JANEWAY: You can't just dump your child on someone and hope he learns something.
Q: I can't?
JANEWAY: He needs to be parented.
Q: And how exactly am I supposed to do that? Q is the first child born in the Continuum, which makes me the first parent. I don't even know where to begin.
JANEWAY: You could start by spending time with him.
Q: Urgh.
JANEWAY: Parenthood is more than just cleaning up your child's messes. You need to set an example. It's the only way he'll learn.
Q: Of course. Once he begins to know me better, he'll idolise me. Then he'll do anything I say. Kathy
(He kisses her.)
Q: You're a genius.
(Q disappears.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: I've made a full sensor sweep. There's no sign of any more Borg vessels.
JANEWAY: The boy?
CHAKOTAY: He's gone.
JANEWAY: I am going to my quarters. You have the bridge.

[Janeway's bathroom]

(Janeway is relaxing in a mountain of bubbles when Q appears fully dressed at the tap end.)
Q: I take it back. You're not a genius. I should have known better than to take the advice of a human.
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: Your brilliant plan didn't work. I smothered the boy with attention, spent every waking moment with him. But things only got worse.
JANEWAY: You've been gone for less than ten minutes.
Q: On your temporal plane, maybe. But in Q time we've spent years together. Now he's embarrassed to be seen with me, and it's all your fault.
JANEWAY: My fault?
Q: Tell me how you plan to rectify the situation.
JANEWAY: What happened after you left Voyager?
Q: Q got away from me and rearranged to tectonic plates on Bozel Prime.
JANEWAY: Did you punish him?
Q: Well, I tried to get him to apologise to all sixteen billion Bozelians, but he got angry and stopped talking to me.
JANEWAY: So you gave in to him.
Q: I told him he could shift as many continents as he liked as long as no one got hurt.
JANEWAY: You're not going to do your son any favours by indulging him. You need to make him understand that there are consequences to his actions.
Q: Consequences? Hmm. Kathy, I take it back. You are a genius.
(He leans forward for a kiss, and gets offered the sole of her foot. It gets a kiss.)

[Sickbay]

(Q is holding up an agar dish.)
Q: I think that's long enough.
(He snaps his fingers and Junior appears.)
JUNIOR: What was that for!
Q: What's wrong? You didn't enjoy life as an Oprelian amoeba?
JUNIOR: No. I was shapeless and slimy. The only thing to eat was paramecia.
Q: Sounds unpleasant. I'm sure you'll do whatever you can to avoid returning to that Petrie dish.
JUNIOR: What are you talking about?
Q: The Continuum and I have come to an agreement about your future. Either you become an upstanding citizen of the cosmos, or you'll be sentenced to eternity as a amoeba. How's that for consequences?
JUNIOR: You'd turn your own son into a microscopic lifeform?
Q: You have one week to change your ways. I suggest you make the most of it.
JUNIOR: Fine, I'll see you in seven days.
(Junior snaps his fingers, but nothing happens. He keeps trying.)
Q: We've temporarily relieved you of your powers, to ensure that you're on your best behaviour with the captain.
JUNIOR: You're leaving me here?
JANEWAY: I though we agreed that you were going to take a more active role.
Q: I'd like to, Kathy. But we both know that you're a million times the parent I am.
JANEWAY: I'm not a parent.
Q: Maybe not in the biological sense, but you're certainly a mommy to this crew. Just look how quickly you house-broke that Borg drone.
JANEWAY: It's taken years for Seven to become an individual. You're asking me to change your son in one week?
Q: I'm sure you'll think of something.
JUNIOR: What if she doesn't?
Q: Then it's single-cellular city for you, my boy.
(Q throws him the dish and disappears.)
JUNIOR: I'm getting off this ship.
(Junior throws the dish to the deck and steps on it before leaving.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.

[Corridor]

(Junior is under escort.)
JANEWAY: What you no longer have, Q, is unlimited control of space, matter and time. Which means I give the orders around here. Do I make myself clear? Your quarters.

[Junior's quarters]

JUNIOR: The Petri dish was less cramped.
JANEWAY: Get some sleep. You're going to need it.
JUNIOR: What for?
JANEWAY: I'm preparing a curriculum for you to follow while you're here. You're going to learn respect,
(She removes the pips from his uniform collar.)
JANEWAY: And responsibility.
JUNIOR: Don't tell me you're actually going through with Q's plan?
JANEWAY: I may not approve of his methods, but for once his heart seems to be in the right place. I think his desire to help you is genuine.
JUNIOR: He abandoned me on an antiquated flying machine run by primates.
JANEWAY: We primates are your only hope.
JUNIOR: Seven days? How hard can it be?

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Seven of Nine will be instructing you in spatial causality. You will learn how your actions can have widespread repercussions.
JUNIOR: I read the PADD. You're going to tell me how I can't create anomaly A without causing phenomenon B which in turn affects civilisation C, right?
(Tuvok leaves.)
ICHEB: I'm Icheb.
JUNIOR: Oh, I know who you are. You're the drone with the Kirk fixation.
SEVEN: You would be wise to follow Icheb's example. By applying himself, he's become a valued member of this crew.
JUNIOR: Can I see you naked again?

[Outside a Holodeck]

CHAKOTAY: Computer, run Diplomacy scenario twelve alpha.
NAUSICAAN [OC]: The planetoid is in Nausicaan space. It belongs to us now.
CHAKOTAY: After you.
NAUSICAAN [OC]: Come anywhere near it and we'll attack you.

[Holodeck - Briefing room]

BOLIAN: You can't intimidate us. We've as much right to mine that dilithium as you do.
NAUSICAAN: What are you doing here, Starfleet.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme. I assume you're familiar with these species?
JUNIOR: Nausicaan, Bolian, Cardassian, Romulan, Ferengi and Bajoran.
CHAKOTAY: They're fighting over the mining rights to a planetoid. Your job is to settle the dispute.
JUNIOR: These aliens mean nothing to me. What do I care if they can't get along?
CHAKOTAY: One of your responsibilities as a Q is to maintain order in the universe, right?
JUNIOR: So I've been told.
CHAKOTAY: Well, if you can't help these races come to an agreement, there might be a war. The Alpha Quadrant would be thrown into chaos. Why don't we try running the first scenario together?
JUNIOR: I don't need your help. I can do this myself.
CHAKOTAY: If you want to try, be my guest. I'll be back in thirty minutes to check on your progress. And remember, security is right outside.
(Chakotay leaves.)
JUNIOR: Computer, resume programme.
NAUSICAAN: The planetoid is in Nausicaan space. It belongs to us now.
BOLIAN: You can't intimidate us. We have as much right to mine that dilithium as you do.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Aren't you supposed to be supervising our young guest?
CHAKOTAY: He says he doesn't need supervision.
JANEWAY: And you accepted that?
CHAKOTAY: Of course not. I'm just giving him a chance to fail. Then he'll have to ask for some help.
JANEWAY: Sounds like a good strategy. Let me know how it goes.

[Holodeck - Briefing room]

(Chakotay enters to see the delegates all applauding.)
JUNIOR: Settling the planetoid predicament didn't take very long, so I used the rest of the time to convince the Cardassian to apologise for the occupation of Bajor. How's that for order in the universe?

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Welcome. It's so nice to see you this evening. I hope you're hungry. Step right up, there's plenty for everyone. Enjoy!
(Junior is behind the counter, serving the food.)
JUNIOR: Do you ever stop?
NEELIX: Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot. My talking annoys you. Too bad you can't just shut me up again, huh? Crewman Biddle, where have you been hiding yourself? I haven't seen you in days.
JUNIOR: If it isn't drone boy. You come to put me to sleep with another one of your presentations?
ICHEB: Actually, I was wondering if you'd like to participate in some recreational activities.
JUNIOR: I don't have the time. Aunt Kathy's forcing me to write an historical essay on the Q Continuum.
ICHEB: That's a challenging subject.
JUNIOR: I've never written an essay before. I don't know where to start.
ICHEB: The origin of the Q seems like the most logical place, followed by an analysis of their interaction with humanity. You could conclude with a description of the events that lead you to Voyager.
JUNIOR: Would you mind writing some of this down for me?
ICHEB: I'll get a PADD.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Insightful, informative. I'm impressed. Too bad you didn't write it.
JUNIOR: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I'd recognise Icheb's style anywhere.
JUNIOR: He gave me a few notes on my first draft, that's all. I negotiated a peace treaty between six belligerent species in just thirteen minutes.
JANEWAY: When Commander Chakotay left the room, you altered their personality subroutines to make them more agreeable. We may be common bipeds but we're not stupid. Your training is over. Go back to your room and wait for your father to return.
JUNIOR: If you don't help me, the Continuum will turn me into an amoeba.
JANEWAY: I wanted to help you. But instead of trying to live up to your potential, you cheated.
JUNIOR: Do you think it's easy to live up to my potential? I was supposed to be the saviour of the Q Continuum. Tell me, how do you save a race that's already omnipotent?
JANEWAY: Those were the Q's expectations, not mine. All I asked was that you make a sincere effort, but you weren't even willing to try.
JUNIOR: Please, Aunt Kathy. You're my only hope.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm glad you finally realised that. Now, if your motives are sincere I'm willing to give you another chance. But step out of line again and I'm through with you. Understood?
JUNIOR: Understood.
JANEWAY: Dismissed!

Captain's log, stardate 54704.5. It's been four days since my ultimatum to the young Q, and he appears to be making progress. His instructors inform me that he's taking on his assignments with new determination, and he's made a concerted effort to be more courteous to the crew. It's hard to believe this is the same brazen young man who came aboard a few days ago. (Tuvok has taken Junior running through the corridors.)

[Mess hall]

JUNIOR: Captain, this is for you. It's a new draft of my essay. I know you didn't ask for one but I felt I owed it to you for giving me a second chance.
JANEWAY: I, Q. An Insider's View of the Continuum. If the essay's half as clever as the title I'm sure I'll enjoy it.
(Icheb enters.)
ICHEB: Lieutenant Paris has offered to give me a piloting lesson. I thought you might like to join us.
JUNIOR: Thanks, but I have to help Crewman Chell scrub the plasma conduits.
JANEWAY: I think you've earned a break. This is the only time off I'm giving you. I suggest you take advantage of it.
JUNIOR: Yes, ma'am. Piloting lesson, huh? Where are we going?

[Delta Flyer]

(Icheb is piloting through an unnaturally crowded asteroid belt.)
PARIS: Steady. Ease up a little on the thrusters.
JUNIOR: In case you forgot, I'm mortal now. I'd appreciate it if you didn't fly us into a rock.
ICHEB: Maybe Q could take over for a little while.
PARIS: What do you say, you want a turn at the wheel?
JUNIOR: Ordinarily a Q wouldn't demean himself by operating primitive machinery, but these aren't ordinary circumstances.
(Icheb gives up the helm to Junior, and immediately an alarm sounds.)
JUNIOR: Did I do something wrong?
PARIS: Just a little ion imbalance in the impulse drive. Nothing to worry about.
JUNIOR: Well, it's very distracting. Can't you fix it?
PARIS: I could, but we'd have to go back to Voyager and run diagnostics. If you two don't mind cutting your lesson a little short?
JUNIOR: That won't be necessary. In fact I barely hear it any more. Do you hear it?
ICHEB: Hear what?

[Corridor]

(The turbolift door opens.)
Q: Going up?
JANEWAY: I'll catch the next one.
(Janeway closes the door on him and walks on.)
Q: Oh, you can't get away from me that easily.
JANEWAY: It's only been five days. Why are you back?
Q: Oh, I thought I'd just pop in and check on Junior. I'm not an entirely uninvolved father, you know.
JANEWAY: Well, he got off to a pretty shaky start, but he's made some progress since then.
Q: Really?
JANEWAY: He's been working extremely hard.
Q: We're talking about the same Q?
JANEWAY: If you don't believe me, maybe you should see for yourself.

[Ready room]

(Junior is reading his essay.)
JUNIOR: The Continuum has been perceived in a variety of ways. A dreary desert road, a blood-soaked battle ground. But with the help of Voyager's crew I've begun to perceive it in another context. A home. I look forward to the day when I return there and make that perception a reality.
JANEWAY: Well? What did you think?
Q: Oh, it's very nice.
JANEWAY: Nice?
Q: Yes. I especially liked the part about the Continuum.
JANEWAY: The entire essay was about the Continuum.
Q: Yes, and it's very nice.
JUNIOR: I'm late for my temporal mechanics lesson.
(Junior slams the PADD down on the desk and leaves.)
JANEWAY: Q.
Q: Well, if there's nothing else, I'll be on my way.
JANEWAY: He worked so hard on that paper, the least you could have done was tell him you were proud of him.
Q: But I'm not.
JANEWAY: Oh.
Q: And frankly, it's a little hard to be impressed with any of the boy's accomplishments. He's been here for five days and what have you taught him? How to scribble essays and play with holograms? What's next, basket weaving?
JANEWAY: Whether you're willing to admit it or not, your son has made progress here. He has the potential to be a better Q than you will ever be.
Q: Potential isn't going to be enough for the Continuum.
JANEWAY: Then what will be enough?
Q: The boy needs to demonstrate nothing less than exemplary Q-ness.
JANEWAY: And what exactly is Q-ness?
Q: Oh, it's impossible for your miniscule mind to comprehend. But I know Q-ness when I see it. And this
(Q picks up the PADD.)
Q: Is not it.

[Junior's quarters]

(Doorbell.)
JUNIOR: Come in.
JANEWAY: I wanted to see how you were.
JUNIOR: I'm perfectly fine. Why wouldn't I be?
JANEWAY: I thought you might be upset by Q's reaction to your essay.
JUNIOR: He's impossible to please. I don't care what he thinks.
JANEWAY: We have two days left. Let's make the most of them.
JUNIOR: Aunt Kathy, do you think the Continuum will be any more impressed with me than Q was? That's what I thought.
JANEWAY: If the Continuum decides they won't take you back, I'll ask them to let you stay here.
JUNIOR: I don't think they care where an amoeba spends eternity.
JANEWAY: That's not what I meant. I'll ask them to let you remain human.
JUNIOR: I appreciate that, but I don't want to be human. I want to be a Q, like my father.

[Jefferies tube]

JUNIOR: Itchy, are you in here? Itchy?
ICHEB: What can I do for you, Q-ball?
JUNIOR: I need your help. Remember that ion imbalance Lieutenant Paris mentioned during our lesson? We're going to repair it for him.
ICHEB: Did you get permission?
JUNIOR: That would ruin the surprise.
ICHEB: Surprise?
JUNIOR: The captain's been encouraging me to take more initiative. I want to show her I can do things for others without being asked.
ICHEB: I'll help you, on one condition.
JUNIOR: Name it.
ICHEB: You won't refer to me as Itchy in front of the senior officers.

[Delta Flyer]

ICHEB: I've realigned the last pair of power couplings. You can start the pre-ignition sequence.
JUNIOR: Understood.
ICHEB: I'm not detecting any ion fluctuations. We did it. You can power down the engine now. Q, what are you doing?
JUNIOR: You're going to love this. I once learned how to open a spatial flexure using nothing more than a deflector array.
ICHEB: Flexure?
JUNIOR: It's like a tunnel through space. I'm going to open one to the Clevari system. Wait till you see the females. They're spectacular,
ICHEB: We need the captain's permission to leave Voyager.
JUNIOR: Do you think she'd give it to us?
ICHEB: No.
JUNIOR: Then there's no point in asking.
ICHEB: You've been doing so well. Why break the rules now?
JUNIOR: I'm bored.
ICHEB: Icheb to Security.
JUNIOR: They can't hear you. I've dampened all outgoing communications.
(Icheb discovers that there's also a forcefield between the two teenagers.)
JUNIOR: Just sit back, Itchy. Enjoy the ride.
(Junior blasts their way out of the shuttlebay.)
ICHEB: What's the real reason you're doing this?
JUNIOR: I'm getting out of here before my father can put me back in that Petrie dish.
ICHEB: The Q are omnipotent. They'll find you.
JUNIOR: I may not have my powers anymore, but I know plenty of cosmic nooks and crannies we can hide in. Voyager's locked onto us with a tractor beam. They're so predictable.

[Bridge]

KIM: They're opening some sort of spatial rift off their port bow.
TUVOK: It's disrupting the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
(The tractor beam fails and the Flyer goes into the rift.)
TUVOK: They're gone.

[Delta Flyer]

JUNIOR: Welcome to the Clevari system. What would you like to do first? Take a dip with the mermaids of Golos Prime? Challenge the Warrior Goddess of Fektar to a grappling contest?
ICHEB: What I want is to return to Voyager.
JUNIOR: Forget that dreary ship, with it's rules and regulations. We can do anything we want here.
ICHEB: Go back to Voyager, apologise to the captain. She'll help you.
JUNIOR: It's too late. She said one more violation and I'd be thrown off her ship. I'm pretty sure this qualifies.
ICHEB: What's wrong?
JUNIOR: There's a vessel approaching.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: You're trespassing in Chokuzan space.
JUNIOR: We were just leaving.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Our laws require that you be incarcerated pending an investigation.
JUNIOR: How long will that take?
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Disengage your engines and prepare to be boarded.
ICHEB: We should do as he says.
JUNIOR: Why? Just because he has a bigger ship?
ICHEB: Because Captain Janeway has taught us to respect the laws of other cultures.
JUNIOR: I should have known better than to bring you along.
(Junior shoots at the Chokuzan ship and flies off.)
ICHEB: You're going to get us killed!
JUNIOR: Did you expect me to surrender? He might have locked us up for years.
ICHEB: You don't know that.
(Whumph!)
JUNIOR: There's no time for debate. I need you at tactical.
(He lowers the forcefield.)
ICHEB: Shields are down to thirty percent. Sixteen percent.
JUNIOR: I'm opening another flexure. We'll go to the Zozak system. The girls there aren't as attractive but we have to make some compromises.
(Icheb gets zapped with the residue from the Chokuzan energy weapon as they enter the flexure. He falls to the deck.)
JUNIOR: Icheb!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm detecting another rift forming, approximately five thousand kilometres directly ahead. A vessel is emerging.
JANEWAY: It's the Flyer.
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
Q2 [on viewscreen]: Aunt Kathy.
JANEWAY: Don't you Aunt Kathy me.
Q2 [on viewscreen]: Yell at me later. We need to get Icheb to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: His cells are being necrotised by some form of omicron radiation. But I can't treat his injuries without knowing more about the weapon that caused them.
Q: Is this a bad time?
JANEWAY: Tell him.
JUNIOR: Icheb stole a shuttle from Voyager. I tried to stop him but he kidnapped me. And he started a fight with another ship.
JANEWAY: He stole the shuttle and he attacked the other vessel.
Q: Is that true, son?
JUNIOR: Please, Q, just save him.
Q: Don't be absurd.
JUNIOR: You're not going to help him?
Q: Like Aunt Kathy said, you're never going to learn anything if you don't face the consequences of your actions. If your little playmate has to die to teach you a lesson, so be it.
(Q disappears.)
JUNIOR: I know you can hear me, Q. Come back! Q!
JANEWAY: You're wasting your time.
JUNIOR: He's the only one who can save Icheb.
JANEWAY: No, he isn't. You're going back to that ship you attacked. You're going to apologise for what you did, and you're going to plead with him for the information we need to save Icheb.
JUNIOR: Look at what they did to him. If I go back they'll do the same to me.
EMH: What do you care? By this time tomorrow you'll be an amoeba.
JUNIOR: Well, I'd rather be an amoeba than a corpse.
JANEWAY: That would be easier, wouldn't it. No expectations to live up to, no one to disappoint.
JUNIOR: I'm a failure as a Q and a human. If I'm a single celled organism, at least I can't hurt anybody.
JANEWAY: Why did you come back here?
JUNIOR: To escape the Chokuzan.
JANEWAY: You could have used your technology to take you anywhere, but you came back here, to us. Why?
JUNIOR: I probably hit the wrong control. Icheb is the only friend I've ever had. I brought him back here because I thought you could save him. Obviously I was mistaken.
JANEWAY: The only mistake you made was running away. You have a chance to do the right thing now. Don't waste it.

[Delta Flyer]

(He has found the Chokuzan ship again. Janeway is with him.)
JUNIOR: The attack on your vessel was entirely my fault. Icheb had nothing to do with it, but he's the one who's dying. I take full responsibility for what happened. I'll do anything you ask. Just help my friend.
JANEWAY: My crew and I will repair any damage he did to your ship.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Are you the adult responsible for this child?
JANEWAY: I suppose I am.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: We'll accept his apology and give you the information you need to save his accomplice. But you will be punished for their crime.
JUNIOR: She didn't have anything to do with it.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: In our culture adults are accountable for the actions of their children.
JUNIOR: I attacked your ship. I should be punished for it, not her.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: You don't even know what the punishment is. It might be torture, or even execution.
JUNIOR: I don't care, if it means saving my friend.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Well done, Junior. I'm proud of you.
(The alien snaps his fingers and flash! It's Q on the screen)
Q [on screen]: Surprise!
(Another flash and he's on the Flyer, laughing.)
Q: I wish you could see the look on your faces. Oh, wait. You can.
(He gives them mirrors.)
JUNIOR: We don't have time for your games. We need to find the real people I attacked.
Q: You just did. I was the Chokuzan you fired on.
JANEWAY: What kind of horrible joke
Q: Not a joke, a test. I knew the pathetic little exercises you had him performing would not impress the Continuum. So, when he escaped your clutches I devised a real test. It was touch and go there for a moment, but you passed with flying colours.
JANEWAY: What about Icheb?
Q: Your Doctor will discover he's made a miraculous recovery. Now then, if we're all finished here it's Judgment Day for Junior.

[Mess hall]

(The tables and chairs have vanished. Junior, Q and Janeway appear in front of three Q judges.)
Q: We're ready, your Honour. 
JUDGE: In the case of the Continuum versus Q, we the Continuum find that Q has not made sufficient progress to warrant the reinstatement of his powers.
Q: Objection. What about my test?
JUDGE: What about it?
Q: Q was willing to sacrifice himself to save his friend. Surely that counts for something?
JUDGE: It was Q who endangered the boy's life in the first place. However, in deference to the aforementioned act of contrition, the defendant will not be transformed into an Oprelian amoeba. Instead, he will suffer the next worst fate. Remaining human. Court is adjourned.
(The tribunal disappears)
Q: This is an outrage! They can't do this to me!
(Q disappears.)

[Ready room]

(Doorbell.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
JUNIOR: Do you have a moment? A few days ago you offered to let me remain on Voyager. I know I've made a few mistakes since then, and you probably don't want me around. But, if it's all right with you, I'd like to continue my training.
JANEWAY: But you have nothing left to prove to the Continuum.
JUNIOR: There's a lot I still need to prove to you.
JANEWAY: What about your father?
JUNIOR: You don't honestly believe we'll see him again, do you? He obviously doesn't want me around. Why else would he have left me here? Twice.
Q: The question you should be asking is why I keep coming back. Now, I'm sorry I left so abruptly, but the Continuum's verdict demanded an immediate appeal. I told them I refused to belong to any Continuum that wouldn't accept my son as a member. We're a package deal.
JUNIOR: You left the Continuum for me?
Q: Oh, don't be ridiculous. I'm the only one holding that place together. And when they realised they might lose me, they crumbled like a Gelbian sand sculpture.
JUNIOR: They're going to return my powers?
Q: They already have.
(Junior conjures up a large bouquet of roses.)
JUNIOR: For you, Captain. For all your help.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
(Then she notices the room is full of roses.)
Q: Now that you're a Q again, I thought we might spend some quality time together. I want to show you the cosmos the way it was meant to be seen.
JUNIOR: We've tried that already.
Q: Things'll be different this time. I promise. Now run along. I'll meet you on Golos Prime (wink) after I've had a few moments alone with the captain.
JUNIOR: I'll see you soon, Aunt Kathy.
JANEWAY: I certainly hope so.
(Junior disappears.)
JANEWAY: So, the Continuum crumbled like a Gelbian sand sculpture?
Q: Yes. Some of them even got on their knees and begged me to stay. It was pathetic. If you must know, I had to agree to a few minor conditions.
JANEWAY: Oh? Such as?
Q: Eternal custody of the boy. Wherever the little brat goes, I go with him.
JANEWAY: I hope he won't spoil too much of your fun.
Q: Oh, before I leave.
(Q gives her a PADD.)
Q: I did a little homework for you. Consider it a thank you for everything you did for Junior.
JANEWAY: Not that I don't appreciate it, but this will only take a few years off our journey. Why not send us all the way?
Q: What sort of an example would I be setting for my son if I did all the work for you?


S7 E20
Author, Author
Stardate: 54732.3
Original Airdate: 18 April 2001

[Holodeck]
EMH [OC]: In the beginning there is darkness. The emptiness of a matrix waiting for the light. Then, a single photon flares into existence, then another, and soon thousands more. Optronic pathways connect, subroutines emerge from the chaos, and a holographic consciousness is born. (To illustrate this, an image of the EMH is built up bit by bit. He is wearing a satin smoking jacket. Very Noel Coward.)
EMH [OC]: I awaken into this world fully programmed yet completely innocent, unaware of the hardships I'll endure or the great potential I will one day fulfil.
(The hologram sits at a desk, picks up a quill pen and starts writing in a blank book.
EMH: Computer, save revisions and open chapter one.

Captain's log, stardate 54732.3. It's been three weeks since we received Starfleet's instructions in the last datastream and we're finally ready to begin Operation Watson. We're all holding our breath.

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM: The deflector's in position.
JANEWAY: Anything?
KIM: I'm picking up a phased tachyon beam.
SEVEN: There's triaxialating signal encoded in it.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BARCLAY [on screen]: Voyager, this Lieutenant Barclay at Starfleet Command. Are you receiving this?
JANEWAY: Can you clear it up?
KIM: I'm on it.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: Captain Janeway, it's a pleasure to finally talk to you in person.
JANEWAY: The pleasure's mine, Admiral. How's the weather in San Francisco?
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: Cold and rainy as usual.
JANEWAY: It sounds delightful. Lieutenant Barclay, my congratulations on establishing the first trans-galactic comm. link. You've earned a place in the history books.
BARCLAY [on screen]: I can't take all of the credit, Captain. It was Harry and Seven who suggested bouncing a tachyon beam off of the quantum singularity.
KIM: Just be sure to thank us when you accept the Daystrom prize.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: I wish we had more time for small talk but the singularity only stays in alignment for eleven minutes a day.
JANEWAY: Eleven minutes are better than none, Admiral. We appreciate all your work, Reg.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: We're going to leave it up to you to determine how to allocate the comm. time.
BARCLAY [on screen]: Admiral, er, there was something else.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: Oh, yes. Mister Barclay has arranged a small gift for you and your crew. (Their image shrinks into the bottom right corner of the screen, to reveal planet Earth.)
BARCLAY [on screen]: This is a live image from McKinley Station. Not too much cloud cover over North America today.
JANEWAY: Quite a view. Thank you, Reg.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: In my hat I hold one hundred and forty six sequentially numbered isolinear chips, one for every member of the crew. Each chip entitles the bearer to three minutes of uninterrupted comm. time with his loved ones back in the Alpha Quadrant. Good luck.
(Hands dive into his colourful chef's hat.)
KIM: My Mom's birthday is next week. This could be the best present I ever gave her. Who's everyone else calling?
CHAKOTAY: I'll be calling my sister. What about you, Captain?
JANEWAY: My mother, I hope.
EMH: Doesn't anyone want to know who I'm calling?
PARIS: Wait, wait, let me guess. Reg Barclay or Doctor Zimmerman.
EMH: What makes you so certain it's either of them?
(It is the senior crew's chance to draw lots.)
PARIS: Number six.
NEELIX: That's the lowest one yet. You'll be talking to your family the day after tomorrow.
KIM: One hundred thirty. That's about a month and a half from now. So much for Mom's birthday.
EMH: Apparently, the line forms here.
TUVOK: Congratulations.
KIM: Doc, how about a trade? I'm willing to throw in some holodeck time. Come on. It would mean a lot to my mother.
EMH: I wish I could help, but I have a very important call to make.
PARIS: Here, give your mom my best.
KIM: Are you sure?
PARIS: I've waited this long. What's another six weeks?
(Paris trades his number 6 for Kim's 130.)

[Astrometrics lab]

(There is a Bolian on the astrometrics screen, sitting behind a desk in an office.0
BROHT [on screen]: I can hear the critics already. A new voice has arrived. You could be the next K'Ratak or a modern-day Tolstoy. I'd like to start distribution by the end of the month.
EMH: The material I sent was only a working draft. I need time to make revisions.
BROHT [on screen]: If you insist, but please do it quickly.
EMH: I will. So tell me, what did you think of the characters?
BROHT [on screen]: Oh, they're very real. Compelling. I almost forgot they were holograms.
EMH: Who was your favourite?
BROHT [on screen]: Without a doubt, that would have to be Lieutenant
(Transmission ends.)
EMH: What happened?
(Seven turns from Stellar Cartography map 4733.)
SEVEN: Your time has expired.
EMH: You could have let the man finish his sentence.
SEVEN: I believe your ego has received enough stroking for one day.

[Sickbay]

(Enter the EMH, whistling.)
PARIS: So how's Reg?
EMH: I'll have you know I was speaking with Ardon Broht, of Broht and Forrester.
PARIS: The publishers of the Dixon Hill series?
EMH: Who are now about to publish my work. It seems you're not the only one aboard with a flair for holographic narratives.
PARIS: Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you.
PARIS: So. what's it about?
EMH: The adventures of an intrepid doctor.
PARIS: Oh, sounds like fun. You know, I've never thought about trying to get my work published. Maybe I could talk to your people about Captain Proton.
EMH: Broht and Forrester deals in sophisticated literature.
PARIS: What are you saying, that I'm low brow?
EMH: Not at all. I'd be delighted to talk to them.
PARIS: Thanks. So, when do I get to see this opus?
EMH: Well, it's not ready yet.
PARIS: It was ready enough for Broht and Forrester.
EMH: Maybe it could use a fresh pair of eyes. After all, you are a fellow author. I'll cover the rest of your shift.
PARIS: Oh, I almost forgot. What's it called?
EMH: Photons Be Free.
PARIS: Catchy.

[Holodeck]

EMH [OC]: I awaken into this world fully programmed, yet completely innocent unaware of the hardships I'll endure or the great potential I will one day fulfil.
(Paris stands in front of the desk. The hologram looks up and puts down his quill.)
NARRATOR-EMH: Ah, welcome. You've made an excellent choice. You're about to take part in a thrilling first person narrative. You will take on the role of an Emergency Medical Hologram, the Chief Medical Officer aboard the starship Vortex.
PARIS: Vortex?
NARRATOR-EMH: As our story begins, an anomaly has hurled your ship thousands of light years across the galaxy. Your mission, to uphold your medical and ethical standards as you struggle against the crew's bigotry and intolerance. Persons with vascular disorders should consult a physician before running this programme. And now, a few acknowledgments. First, Doctor Lewis Zimmerman, the creator of my holo-matrix, whose foresight and dedication have made it possible for me to achieve
PARIS: Computer, freeze programme. How much longer is this introduction?
COMPUTER: Nine minutes, four seconds.
PARIS: Skip to the first chapter.

[Holodeck - Sickbay]

EMH [OC]: Chapter one. A Healer Is Born. In which our protagonist must make a difficult choice.
(Red alert. Something goes bang. Paris steps out of the office.)
CREWMAN: Are you the EMH?
PARIS: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
CREWMAN: Our doctor's dead. We've got wounded. They're both badly hurt. Who should we treat first?
PARIS: Second degree plasma burns. He's got an aortic rupture. Get him to the surgical bay now. (A hunky Bajoran man with a long pony tail and tattoo over his cheek, helps an injured person in. The tattoo incorporates a snake and a Bajoran symbol.)
KATANAY: You. Over here.
(The injured man is Paris with a moustache.)
PARIS: Nice moustache.
KATANAY: What?
PARIS: Nothing. He's got a mild concussion. I'm going to have to treat the others first.
KATANAY: I need Lieutenant Marseilles on the bridge. You'll treat him now.
PARIS: As I understand it my job is to treat the critical patients first. So, if you'll excuse me
(Katanay puts up a forcefield to stop him.)
KATANAY: I don't know who you think you are, hologram, but to me, you're just another piece of technology.
PARIS: Well, apparently, I'm a piece of technology that's in demand so why don't you go back to the bridge and let me do my job?
(Enter the captain, a woman with long black hair.)
JENKINS: (long black hair) What's going on here?
KATANAY: Our medical hologram is refusing to treat Mister Marseilles.
JENKINS: Are you malfunctioning?
PARIS: I don't think so.
JENKINS: I need my helmsman back at his station.
PARIS: Lieutenant Marseilles isn't seriously hurt. This man will be dead in five minutes if I don't operate.
JENKINS: Drop the force field.
(She draws her phaser and shoots the injured crewman.)
JENKINS: That patient is dead. Now you're free to treat Lieutenant Marseilles.

[Mess hall]

(Paris is describing the action to Torres, Kim and Neelix.)
PARIS: Then the captain pulls out a phaser and shoots him right there on the biobed.
KIM: Captain Janeway murders a crewman?
PARIS: Captain Jenkins. Everybody has a different name. You're Kymble, you're Torrey and I am Lieutenant Marseilles.
TORRES: Oh, now that's creative.
KIM: What did you say to the Doctor?
PARIS: He thinks he's written a masterpiece. I didn't know what to tell him.
KIM: If this gets distributed, people are going to assume this is about us. What are our families going to think?
TORRES: This is a Starfleet ship. No one will believe we actually go around shooting injured crewmen.
PARIS: People may not take the programme literally, but they might wonder if there's some truth to it. I think we should talk to the captain.
TORRES: Are you sure you're not taking this a little personally?
PARIS: What do you mean?
TORRES: Well, the holodeck always has been your domain.
PARIS: You think I'm jealous? Okay, maybe I am overreacting. Why don't the rest of you try the programme and decide for yourselves?

[Holodeck - Sickbay]

EMH [OC]: Chapter five. Out of the frying pan. In which our protagonist must confront abusive colleagues.
CREWWOMAN: I'm here for my physical.
TORRES: Why don't you have a seat over here?
MARSEILLES: Doctor, you better get down to Engineering.
(Torres tries not to laugh at the moustache.)
TORRES: What's wrong?
MARSEILLES: A plasma conduit just exploded. At least ten people are hurt.
(Torres tries to leave sickbay, and her leg disappears.)
MARSEILLES: Hey genius, Forgetting something? Your mobile emitter.
TORRES: Oh, right. I don't see it.
(Marseilles points to a huge backpack.)
TORRES: That's my mobile emitter?
(Marseilles helps her on with it.)
TORRES: This thing must weigh fifty kilos.
MARSEILLES-PARIS: You should be glad we let you out of your cage at all. Now get going.

[Holodeck - Engineering]

(Chief Engineer Torrey is a human woman.)
TORREY: I'm impressed.
ENGINEER: Really?
TORREY: Absolutely. I haven't seen a dilithium matrix this far out of alignment since I served aboard a Ferengi garbage scow. I'll fix it myself.
TORRES: Excuse me.
TORREY: How many times have I told you? Engineering is off limits to holograms.
TORRES: Maybe you should waive that restriction during emergencies. A plasma conduit exploded?
TORREY: Does it look like anyone here is covered with plasma burns?
TORRES: Lieutenant Paris, er, Marseilles told me there was an accident.
TORREY: Looks like your auditory subroutines are malfunctioning, again. I'm surprised a matrix as primitive as yours can function at all.
TORRES: Maybe you should be a little nicer to your shipmates. You never know when you might need their help.
TORREY: Let's get one thing straight. You're not one of my shipmates. You're a tool, like this hyperspanner. And tools can be replaced. So why don't you go back to Sickbay before I start doing a little reprogramming?

[Holodeck - sickbay]

TORRES: Computer, lights.
(The lights reveal Marseilles and crewwoman getting intimate on a biobed.)
MARSEILLES: Didn't I tell you to go to Engineering?
TORRES: Oh, I get it. Interesting plot twist. You get me out of Sickbay so you're free to give my patient a tonsillectomy.
MARSEILLES: If you even think about mentioning this to my wife, I will purge your memory buffer. Do we understand each other?
CREWWOMAN 2: I'm here for my physical?

[Holodeck - Ready room]

EMH [OC]: Chapter six. Duel in the Ready room. In which our protagonist faces an inquisition.
(Captain Jenkins points a flintlock pistol at Neelix, who is wearing the backpack.)
JENKINS: This time, you've gone too far.
NEELIX: Captain, I'm not sure what you mean.
JENKINS: An inventory of your holo-matrix. Fifty gigaquads of memory devoted to music. Forty two for daydreams. Another ten to expand your sexuality.
NEELIX: I had no idea holograms could do that.
JENKINS: These extracurricular subroutines don't belong as part of an Emergency Medical Hologram. Do you have anything to say for yourself?
NEELIX: Er, of course I do. I don't think these subroutines are trivial, Captain. They help make me a better doctor and a better person.
JENKINS: But you're not a person. You may be programmed to look and act human, but that doesn't make you one. These subroutines are going to be deleted immediately. Mister Tulak.
(The Security Chief enters. He is human with a neat goatee beard just like the Alternative Universe Spock.)
JENKINS: Take the EMH to the holo-lab for reprogramming.

[Holodeck - turbolift]

EMH [OC]: Chapter Seven. The Escape. In which our protagonist is aided by his only ally.
(Kymble, a Trill, has the Doctor at phaser point. They enter a turbolift with Tulak.)
KYMBLE: I'm not sure we should be doing this, Commander.
KIM: Listen to him. He knows what he's talking about.
KYMBLE: Quiet! I'm not talking to you. If we start tinkering with his matrix how do we know we won't accidentally delete some of his diagnostic subroutines?
TULAK: You afraid you'll catch something on your next away mission, Ensign?
KYMBLE: There must be millions of viruses in this quadrant that no one's ever encountered before. With my luck, I'll probably end up catching half of them.
KIM: Great, my character's a hypochondriac.
(The turbolift doors open to reveal a red-headed woman with a flashing necklace.)
THREE: I'll escort the prisoner from here.
TULAK: Our orders are to take him to the holo-lab.
THREE: I've been ordered to perform the procedure.
TULAK: Your sympathies for the EMH are no secret, Three of Eight. Step aside.

[Holodeck -corridor]

(Three uses her wrist band to set up a forcefield between the EMH and his escort. She attacks them and throws Kim a phaser.)
THREE: Run, Doctor!
(But there is another forcefield further along. He is caught and dragged away.)

[Holodeck - Sickbay]

EMH [OC] Chapter eight. A Tragic End. In which our protagonist learns his fate.
(The mobile emitter backpack is removed from the player.)
JENKINS: I've tried to do this the easy way, but it's clear you're not going to be reasonable. Your matrix will be decompiled and reinitialised. You'll remain offline except for emergencies.
TORREY: Ready.
JENKINS: Do it.
THREE: Wait. He has the right to expand his programme.
JENKINS: He's a piece of technology. He has no rights.
THREE: But he should. One day, the EMH and others like him will be recognised for what they are. Intelligent individuals with a passion for life. Make no mistake, Captain. We may be thousands of light years from home, but one day people will learn of the crime you're committing here today.
JENKINS: Nice speech. Now decompile the programme.
(Captain Janeway watches her alter ego disappear from her sight.)

[Holodeck]

(The narrator comes out from behind his desk.)
NARRATOR-EMH: What you've experienced, dear protagonist is a work of fiction. But like all fiction, it has elements of truth. I hope you now have a better understanding of the struggles holograms must endure in a world controlled by organics.
COMPUTER: End of programme.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the Doctor. Report to my ready room now.

[Briefing room]

EMH: How many times do you want me to say it? My work is not about the Voyager crew.
KIM: Come on. Ensign Kymble? Lieutenant Marseilles?
TORRES: The characters look almost exactly like us.
EMH: I used your physical parameters as a starting point, but I assure you any further similarities are purely coincidental.
PARIS: You set your story on a starship lost in the Delta Quadrant.
EMH: What would you have me write about? Palace intrigue on the Klingon homeworld? I do what all good novelists do. I write what I know.
KIM: So it is about Voyager.
EMH: No! The Vortex characters are larger than life. They're nothing like our crew. As far as I know, Captain, you haven't executed any of my patients.
JANEWAY: Doctor, you've written a very imaginative story, but it's conceivable that people will think it's based on fact.
EMH: I don't see how.
KIM: How many holograms carry mobile emitters?
EMH: The emitter in my story is nothing like the real one.
TORRES: Yeah, what was the point of that? It was like carrying around a small shuttlecraft.
EMH: It's a metaphor. A symbol of the burdens that I live with every day. Imagine having to take this everywhere you go. It would be a constant reminder that you're different from everyone else. I wanted the player to feel the weight of it. Literally.
JANEWAY: Your emitter isn't a ball and chain. It liberates you.
EMH: It doesn't always feel that way.
JANEWAY: If I didn't know better, I'd think this story was written by someone who feels oppressed. Is that how you see yourself, Doctor?
EMH: Of course not. The real victims are my brothers in the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: Brothers?
EMH: Hundreds of EMH mark ones. Identical to me in every respect except, they've been condemned to a menial existence. Scrubbing conduits, mining dilithium. There's a long history of writers drawing attention to the plight of the oppressed. The Vedek's Song, for example tells the story of the occupation of Bajor.
JANEWAY: I understand you have your reasons for writing this, but you should consider how it's going to make your friends feel.
EMH: I'm sorry my work offends you. But if the price of expressing myself is having to suffer the scorn of a few colleagues, so be it.

[Astrometrics lab]

MARY KIM [on screen]: You're very popular with my eighth graders. It's all they ever talk about. Voyager this, Voyager that.
JOHN KIM [on screen]: Your mother has a small favour to ask of you.
KIM: Name it.
MARY KIM [on screen]: I was hoping you could record a short presentation about what it's like to command a starship.
KIM: But I don't command a starship.
MARY KIM [on screen]: In your letters you said the captain puts you in charge sometimes.
KIM: What I said was I'm in command of the night shift, twice a week.
MARY KIM [on screen]: She must think very highly of you to give you so much responsibility.
JOHN KIM [on screen]: So when is she giving you a promotion?
KIM: It's a small ship. There are only so many command positions available.
MARY KIM [on screen]: This Captain Janeway sounds like a lovely woman. Maybe I should write her.
KIM: Mom!
MARY KIM [on screen]: She needs to know how hard you work.
KIM: Please, don't get involved.
(The image starts to break up.)
MARY KIM [on screen]: Harry, I can't hear you.
SEVEN: A solar flare is scattering the beam.
MARY KIM [on screen]: Tell Captain Janeway to expect a letter from me.
KIM: Mom, don't send anything to the captain, do you hear me? Try boosting the deflector output.
SEVEN: It's already at maximum.
(Transmission lost.)
KIM: Argh! I don't believe this. I had a minute and a half left.
SEVEN: You'll have another opportunity to speak with them in approximately two months.
KIM: You just don't get it, do you?
SEVEN: No.
KIM: Maybe if you had family you were close to, you'd feel a little differently.

Chief Medical Officer's personal log, stardate 54740.8. Although the decision has made me unpopular with the crew, I've decided not to compromise my work. I'm making some final revisions to the programme before transmitting it.

[Holodeck]

EMH: Computer, run EMH programme Photons Be Free.
NARRATOR-PARIS: Welcome. You've made an excellent choice. You're obviously a person with impeccable taste.
EMH: Computer, freeze programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
NARRATOR-PARIS: You are about to embark on a remarkable journey. You will take on the role of a medical assistant aboard the starship Voyeur.
EMH: Voyeur?
NARRATOR-PARIS: Your job will be to assist the Chief Medical Officer, and learn to tolerate his overbearing behaviour and obnoxious bedside manner. Remember, patience is a virtue.

[Holodeck - Sickbay]

PARIS [OC]: Chapter one. It's The Doctor's World, You're Just Living In It.
(This EMH has a comb-over.)
HOLO-EMH: When I tell you your shift begins at oh eight hundred that doesn't mean you can stroll in here at oh eight hundred and twenty four seconds. Do you understand me, Ensign!
EMH: This is outrageous.
HOLO-EMH: What's outrageous is that I'm going to miss my tee time. Now, come along. Aw, what seems to be the trouble, One of Three?
TWO: I'm Two of Three.
HOLO-EMH: Sorry. They're triplets, you know.
TWO: It hurts when I do this.
HOLO-EMH: Well then, don't do it.
(He laughs and slaps her sore shoulder.)
TWO: Ow!
HOLO-EMH: Don't be a baby. Your biradial clamp's out of alignment. I've got just the thing. (to EMH) It's a Klingon aphrodisiac, my own special blend.
(He injects the Borg babe and massages her shoulders.)
HOLO-EMH: You'll be feeling better in no time at all. 

[Corridor]

EMH: Lieutenant! I want you to know I'm making a full report to the captain.
PARIS: This isn't about that dermal regenerator I misplaced, is it?
EMH: You know very well what this is about. You accessed my holo-novel without permission and replaced it with your own hackneyed narrative.
PARIS: Hey, I'm just writing what I know.
EMH: You destroyed a work of art that took months to create.
PARIS: Relax, Doc. I saved your programme in a backup file. But I was just trying to make a point.
EMH: Well, you made it, with a typical lack of subtlety.
PARIS: Oh, you're one to talk. Your programme is about as subtle as a Ferengi mating dance.
EMH: My programme is a serious attempt at social commentary, yours is an insulting farce! You had me drugging a patient and taking advantage of her.
PARIS: Don't be ridiculous. That character is not you. For one thing, he has much more hair. But what if some people ran that programme and thought that it was based on you?
That would bother you, wouldn't it?
EMH: I don't care what people think.
PARIS: That's all you care about! You want everyone back home to think of you as a brilliant author.
EMH: I'm not doing this for my ego. And if you could look past yours, maybe you'd see that.
PARIS: Listen, I don't care if the whole Alpha Quadrant mistakes me for Lieutenant Marseilles. What bothers me is that you think that's what I'm like.
EMH: Obviously, you're nothing like Marseilles. He's self-indulgent, immature.
PARIS: And how would you describe me?
EMH: Well, you're a married man with a child on the way. A lot of responsibilities.
PARIS: I'm surprised you noticed. You know, I thought I'd begun to earn your respect. Maybe I was wrong. Your programme is under file theta one five. Do whatever you want with it.

[Doctor's office]

NEELIX: Doctor, I need your help.
EMH: Unless you're suffering acute symptoms, go away.
NEELIX: Er, I was wondering if you could take a quick look at this.
(He gives the EMH a PADD.)
EMH: Cooking with Neelix, a Culinary Tour of the Delta Quadrant.
NEELIX: It's a holo-cookbook proposal. I was hoping to transmit it to your publisher during my comm. link this afternoon. With your approval, of course.
EMH: If you're looking for writing tips, there are plenty of people on this ship eager to offer them.
NEELIX: I don't know what anyone else may have told you, but I loved your holo-novel.
EMH: You did?
NEELIX: Absolutely. It was a rousing adventure, with an important message too.
EMH: Exactly. This is my first chance to be appreciated not just as a physician, but as an artist. I thought the crew would be happy for me.
NEELIX: You're going to reach a wide audience. What do you care about the opinions of a few disgruntled shipmates?
EMH: They're my friends. I don't want to hurt them.
NEELIX: There's an old Talaxian expression. When the road before you splits in two, take the third path.
EMH: Meaning?
NEELIX: You could make some adjustments to the programme so it won't be so obvious it's based on Voyager.
EMH: I suppose I could change the setting, alter the characters' physical parameters.
NEELIX: You wouldn't have to change your theme.
EMH: No. But a rewrite could take weeks. My publisher is expecting a final draft tomorrow.
NEELIX: Maybe you should give him a call.
(Neelix hands over his isolinear chip.)

[Astrometrics lab]

BROHT [on screen]: Revisions?
EMH: I need to rework the characters.
BROHT [on screen]: Why? They're so believable.
EMH: A little too believable, apparently.
BROHT [on screen]: Doctor, I, I really don't think this is necessary.
EMH: I'm afraid I have to insist. My friends' reputations are at stake.

[Mess hall]

EMH: My publisher assures me he won't distribute the programme until he receives the revised version.
TORRES: That must be the one where we assimilate the Borg and take over the quadrant.
JANEWAY: We're all grateful that you're taking our feelings into account.
CHAKOTAY: So how long do you expect the revisions will take?
EMH: Art can't be rushed.
JANEWAY: Take your time, Doctor.
EMH: Lieutenant? I'm sorry.
PARIS: Forget about it.
EMH: I could use your help with the rewrites.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Really? You realise, as a writer I'm a little unsophisticated.
EMH: No, I believe the phrase you're looking for is low brow.
(The EMH walks off. Paris catches up with Torres, who is reading a PADD.)
PARIS: Hey. What's that?
TORRES: It's from my father. He wants to talk.
PARIS: What are you going to do?
TORRES: Well, I've already arranged to talk with my cousin.
PARIS: Oh, I'm sure she wouldn't mind waiting a few weeks.
TORRES: I wouldn't know what to say to him.
PARIS: Then let him do the talking.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Paris is lending moral support.)
JOHN TORRES [on screen]: Look at you. You must be, what, twenty weeks along?
TORRES: Twenty three, actually.
JOHN TORRES [on screen]: Have you decided on a name?
TORRES: Not yet. We were thinking about Miral.
JOHN TORRES [on screen]: Your mother would've liked that. You know, I had some business on Kessik Four a few months ago. You wouldn't believe what our old house looks like.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, thirty seconds.
TORRES: We have less than a minute. Is there a reason you wanted to talk?
JOHN TORRES [on screen]: I know I can't make up for twenty years in one conversation. The truth is, when your ship disappeared, I thought I'd lost you. I don't expect you to forgive me but, maybe we could try to get to know each other again.
TORRES: I'll write you.
(Transmission ends.)

[Pathfinder lab]

BARCLAY: I'm sorry to disturb you, Admiral.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Ah yes, Mister Barclay. What can I do for you?
BARCLAY: I thought you'd want to see this, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Well, what is it?
BARCLAY: It's a holonovel that's becoming quite popular.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Well, I appreciate the gesture Lieutenant but, I don't share your affinity for holographic diversions.
BARCLAY: You don't understand, sir. This programme, it's about Voyager. And it doesn't portray the crew in a very flattering light.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Hmm.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: On screen. 
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven told me your message was urgent.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: I had the dubious privilege of playing a new holonovel apparently written by your EMH. I'm surprised that you would allow the Doctor to discredit your crew like this.
JANEWAY: He's still making revisions. The programme shouldn't have been distributed yet.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: Well, it has been. Mister Barclay tells me it's already being played in thousands of holosuites. (The EMH is there with Captain Janeway for the next message home.)
EMH: You assured me you were going to wait for my revisions. I demand that you recall every copy and issue a public apology to Captain Janeway and her crew.
BROHT [on screen]: I won't do anything of the sort.
JANEWAY: I don't see that you have a choice, Mister Broht. Authors have rights.
BROHT [on screen]: Not in this case.
EMH: What do you mean?
BROHT [on screen]: The Doctor is a hologram.
EMH: So?
BROHT [on screen]: According to Federation law, holograms have no rights.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: Under a strict interpretation of Federation law, Mister Broht is correct. The Doctor has no legal rights.
EMH: Because I'm a hologram.
TUVOK: Yes. There is another option. We may be able to claim that the holonovel reveals classified information. Starfleet could then request that it be recalled for security purposes.
PARIS: Oh, great idea. A cover up. And then everyone will be convinced that it's a true story.
CHAKOTAY: Could we claim defamation?
PARIS: Well, we'd have to prove that the story's about us and that we've been harmed by it.
JANEWAY: We might win on those grounds. But what about the Doctor?
EMH: What about me, Captain? It's the crew's reputations that are as risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure. I think it's your reputation that's on the line here. You have the same rights as every other member of this crew, and I'm not going to let this publisher say otherwise.

Captain's log, stardate 54748.6. A Federation arbitrator has been assigned to determine whether the Doctor has the right to control his artistic creation. Because of our limited comm. time with Earth, the arguments should take about three days.

[Pathfinder lab]

TUVOK [on screen]: You claim the Doctor doesn't have the legal right to control this holoprogramme, yet you're promoting the fact that Voyager's EMH wrote it.
BROHT: Our most successful children's title is a programme written by Toby the Targ. Fortunately Toby hasn't tried to stop me from distributing any of his work.
TUVOK [on screen]: But you don't deny

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: That the Doctor is the creator of this holonovel?

[Pathfinder lab]

BROHT: No, but a replicator created this cup of coffee. Should that replicator be able to determine whether or not I can drink it?

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: I object!
JANEWAY: Doctor.
TUVOK: An intriguing analogy, Mister Broht. But I have never encountered a replicator that could compose music, or paint landscapes, or perform microsurgery. Have you? Would you say that you have a reputation for publishing respected, original works of literature?

[Pathfinder lab]

BROHT: I'd like to think so.
TUVOK [OC]: And is the Doctor's holonovel such a work?
BROHT: Actually, some aspects of it are quite derivative.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Has there even been another work written about a hologram's struggle for equality?

[Pathfinder lab]

BROHT: Not that I know of, but, er
TUVOK [OC]: Then in

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: That respect, it is original.

[Pathfinder lab]

BROHT: I suppose so.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Your honour, Section seven gamma of the Twelfth Guarantee defines an artist as a person who creates an original artistic work. Mister Broht admits that the Doctor created this programme and that it is original. I therefore submit that the Doctor should be entitled to all rights and privileges accorded an artist under the law.
ARBITRATOR [on screen]: You've made a persuasive argument, Commander, but there's a flaw in your logic. As you point out, the law says that the creator of an artistic work must be a person. Your EMH doesn't meet that criteria.
BARCLAY [OC]: Sir, we're losing the link.
ARBITRATOR [on screen]: This hearing is in recess until tomorrow.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: We're not doing well.
EMH: Is that your considered legal opinion? I'm sorry. It's just frustrating to be told I have no more legal standing than an replicator.
TUVOK: If the Doctor doesn't have the right to control his own work, then it stands to reason he never had the right to enter into an agreement with Mister Broht. We could argue that the original contract is invalid.
PARIS: In other words, you want to concede that the Doctor isn't a person.
JANEWAY: What we need to do is prove that he is just as much a person as any of us.
EMH: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: By telling your real life story.

[Pathfinder lab]

SEVEN [on screen]: Because I was having difficulty interacting with the crew, the Doctor gave me social lessons. First, he taught me how to make conversation. Later

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: How to dance. Eventually, he showed me how to express romantic interest.

[Pathfinder lab]

SEVEN [OC]: Without his guidance, I wouldn't be the person I am today.

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM: He decided it wasn't enough to be just a doctor, so he added command subroutines to his matrix and now, in an emergency, he's as capable as any bridge officer.

[Pathfinder lab]

ARBITRATOR: That only proves the Doctor's programme can be modified.
KIM [on screen]: Your honour, I think it shows he has a desire to become more than he is, just like any other person.
BARCLAY: He travelled halfway across the galaxy to care for Lewis Zimmerman, the man who created his programme. It was like a son who wanted to show his father what he'd become, so the old man would be proud of him. And if you ask me, he was.
JANEWAY [on screen]: I'd made myself clear. But the Doctor disobeyed my direct orders. In the process, he endangered the ship and crew.
ARBITRATOR: That's hardly commendable behaviour.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: No, it wasn't. But it was human.

[Pathfinder lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: Starfleet had programmed him to follow orders.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: The fact that he was capable of doing otherwise proves that he can think for himself. Your Honour, centuries ago in most places on Earth, only landowners of a particular gender and race had any rights at all. Over time, those rights were extended to all humans, and later, as we explored the galaxy, to thousands of other sentient species. Our definition of what constitutes a person has continued to evolve. Now we're asking that you expand that definition once more, to include our Doctor.

[Pathfinder lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: When I met him seven years ago,

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: I would never have believed that an EMH could become a valued member of my crew, and my friend. The Doctor is a person as real as any

[Pathfinder lab]

JANEWAY [OC]: Flesh and blood I have ever known. If you believe the testimony you've heard here, it's only fair

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: To conclude that he has the same rights as any of us.

[Pathfinder lab]

ARBITRATOR: You'll have my decision in two days.

[Astrometrics lab]

ARBITRATOR [OC]: This hearing is in recess.

[Mess hall]

SEVEN: When you sing happy birthday to your mother, try to stay in tune.
KIM: What's this?
SEVEN: An isolinear chip entitling the bearer to three minutes of comm. time tomorrow. You made it clear how important it was to finish your conversation.
KIM: I overreacted.
SEVEN: I understand why you did. I've been observing the crew interacting with their families over the past few days. It's become clear to me how meaningful that communication can be.
KIM: Thanks, but I can't accept this.
SEVEN: Why not?
KIM: You should contact your own family.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated.
KIM: There must be someone. A distant relative?
SEVEN: My father has a sister on Earth. Irene Hansen.
KIM: I'm sure she'd be thrilled to hear from you.

[Astrometrics lab]

IRENE HANSON [on screen]: You can imagine my reaction when Starfleet told me to expect your call.
SEVEN: I experienced some apprehension myself.
IRENE HANSON [on screen]: You seem like a lovely young woman. But you were the most stubborn six-year-old I've ever met. Your parents left you with me for a weekend, and you were so angry you locked yourself in my guest room and refused to come out.
SEVEN: That must have been inconvenient for you.
IRENE HANSON [on screen]: Oh, I coaxed you out eventually with a strawberry tart.
SEVEN: I'm very fond of strawberries. I didn't realise I'd eaten them as a child.
IRENE HANSON [on screen]: You couldn't get enough of them. Of course, you didn't hesitate to point out if they weren't perfectly ripe.
SEVEN: I'm sorry if I insulted you. Perhaps I shouldn't have called.
IRENE HANSON [on screen]: No, I'm very glad you did. It's wonderful to see you again, Annika.

[Starfleet Communications]

ARBITRATOR: We're exploring new territory today, so it is fitting that this hearing is being held at Pathfinder. The Doctor exhibits many of the traits we associate with a person. Intelligence, creativity, ambition, even fallibility. But are these traits real, or is the Doctor merely programmed to simulate them? To be honest, I don't know. Eventually we will have to decide, because the issue of holographic rights isn't going to go away. But at this time, I am not prepared to rule that the Doctor is a person under the law. However, it is obvious he is no ordinary hologram and while I can't say with certainty that he is a person, I am willing to extend the legal definition of artist to include the Doctor. I therefore rule that he has the right to control his work. I'm ordering all copies of his holo-novels to be recalled immediately.
BROHT: Your honour!
ARBITRATOR: This hearing is adjourned.
BARCLAY: Congratulations, Doctor.

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: Thank you, Reg.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on screen]: We'll be in touch, Captain.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: You don't look like someone who's just struck the first blow for the rights of holograms.
EMH: I don't mean to sound ungrateful, but it feels like a hollow victory. Pardon the pun. The programme's already been played by thousands of people. The damage is done.
JANEWAY: We'll survive.
PARIS: If I'm not mistaken, don't you have a holonovel to revise?
EMH: Do you think I'll be able to find another publisher?
JANEWAY: If there's one thing I've learned about you, Doctor, it's that you can do just about anything you set your mind to.

[Federation Dilithium Processing Facility, Alpha Quadrant]

(Four months later. One EMH mark one speaks to another whilst a lot more work in the mine.)
EMH1: Time for your diagnostic. Report to the holo-lab.
EMH2: I know the routine.
EMH1: And, while you're there, do yourself a favour. Ask the operator to run programme forty seven beta.
EMH2: Why? What is it?
EMH1: It's called Photons Be Free. It's quite provocative.


S7 E21
Friendship One
Stardate: 54775.4
Original Airdate: 25 April 2001

[Laboratory]
(A pair of humanoids with forehead ridges are picking up a transmission from space.)
PROBE [OC]: We the people of Earth greet you in a spirit of peace and humility. As we venture out of our solar system, we hope to earn the trust and friendship of other worlds.
TECHNICIAN 1: Can we reduce the interference?
TECHNICIAN 2: I'm trying.
(Then comes music - Vivaldi, The Four Seasons.)
TECHNICIAN 2: What is it?
TECHNICIAN 1: I don't know.
TECHNICIAN 2: Distance?
TECHNICIAN 1: It just entered the atmosphere.

[Astrometrics lab]

(Voyager's deflector dish is glowing bright. It is messages home time and Janeway is speaking to an elderly Admiral.)
HENDRICKS [on screen]: They evolved from dinosaurs?
JANEWAY: Hadrosaurs, to be precise. Their ancestors settled in the Delta Quadrant twenty million years ago.
HENDRICKS [on screen]: The Voth, the Kobali, the Vaadwaur. You've made first contact with more species than any captain since James Kirk.
JANEWAY: It helps being the only Starfleet ship within thirty thousand light years.
HENDRICKS [on screen]: You are being too humble. From the first time you spoke up in my classroom I knew you'd go far.
JANEWAY: A little farther than I expected, Professor.
HENDRICKS [on screen]: I have my admiral hat on today, Kathryn, and I didn't call just to catch up. Starfleet has a mission for you.

[Briefing room]

PROBE [OC]: We, the people of Earth, greet you in the spirit of peace and humility. As we venture out of our solar system, we hope to earn the trust and friendship of other worlds.
KIM: Friendship One. I had to memorise that recording in third grade.
PARIS: Me, too. I even built a model of the probe.
JANEWAY: Then this should look familiar. It was launched in 2067.
PARIS: Just four years after Zefram Cochrane tested his first warp engine.
NEELIX: What was it designed to do?
CHAKOTAY: Reach out to other species. Pave the way for all the manned missions that would follow.
KIM: They packed it with information, translation matrices, scientific and cultural databases
TORRES: Computer chip designs, instructions for building transceivers. It's practically a how-to manual.
SEVEN: If the Borg had intercepted this probe, humanity would have been assimilated centuries ago.
CHAKOTAY: Our ancestors had no idea what was out here.
NEELIX: This must have been before your Prime Directive?
TUVOK: It was before Starfleet existed.
JANEWAY: In any case, we lost contact with the probe one hundred and thirty years ago but, its last known coordinates
TORRES: Let me guess. Were in the neighbourhood.
JANEWAY: Starfleet's mapped out a search grid. It'll take us a little off course, but if the probe is still intact and we're lucky enough to find it, we'll be retrieving a little piece of history.

Captain's log, stardate 54775.4. We've been searching for five days without any sign of the probe, but we're not about to disappoint Starfleet on our first official assignment in seven years.

[Bridge]

KIM: Nothing in grid two nine five.
TUVOK: Mister Paris?
PARIS: Moving on.
KIM: We should try skipping ahead a little to grid three one zero. I stayed up all night re-extrapolating the probe's trajectory. I've compensated for solar winds, ionic interference and a few local anomalies Starfleet wouldn't know about.
TUVOK: Alter course to grid three one zero.
PARIS: Trying to impress the Starfleet brass?
KIM: Just doing my job.
(Later -)
KIM: I'm detecting a titanium signature that matches the probe's parameters.
TUVOK: Location?
KIM: A planet two light years away.
PARIS: Confirmed. Good job, Harry.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The readings are coming from the northern subcontinent.
JANEWAY: Can you localise them?
SEVEN: There are high levels of antimatter radiation in the atmosphere, scattering the probe's signature.
CHAKOTAY: Any lifesigns?
SEVEN: None.
JANEWAY: Assemble an away team and take the Flyer down for a closer look.

[Sickbay]

CAREY: You seem to be in a good mood, Doctor.
EMH: Just excited to be doing my part for our first official mission, Mister Carey.
(Neelix and Chakotay are also there.)
PARIS: An inoculation a day keeps the radiation away. I took a look at those atmospheric readings. Thermal eddies, gravimetric sheer. You're going to need your best pilot.
CHAKOTAY: Are you volunteering?
PARIS: If the Doc can spare me.
EMH: I'll muddle through. (Torres enters.)
EMH: If you're here for your foetal resonance scan, you're a day early.
TORRES: I'm here for my inoculation.
PARIS: You are not going on this mission.
TORRES: Chakotay said he needed an engineer.
PARIS: He's already got one.
TORRES: Now he's got two.
PARIS: Will you excuse us?
NEELIX: Any bets on this one?
CHAKOTAY: My money's on B'Elanna.
TORRES: It's been months since I've been on an away mission.
PARIS: Then try the holodeck. The Flyer is full.
TORRES: You can make room. Neelix doesn't have to go.
PARIS: He's not six months pregnant.
TORRES: Being pregnant doesn't make me an invalid.
PARIS: No, it doesn't. But there's a toxic atmosphere down there and you're breathing for two.
TORRES: All right, you win. But if we have another baby, you carry it, and I'll go on the away missions.
PARIS: It's a deal.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Sorry for the bumpy ride. We'll be clearing the stratosphere in about a minute.
NEELIX: I had a cousin who used to transport disulfides from a gas giant. He claimed to love the turbulence. Of course, disulfides are known to cause delusions.
PARIS: Hang on.
(Below the clouds, buildings and roads are visible.)
CAREY: I thought it was uninhabited.
KIM: There's nothing alive down there now. Radiation levels are at six thousand isorems.
CAREY: I've localised the signature to a three kilometre radius.
CHAKOTAY: Transfer the coordinates to the helm. When we find the probe, we'll beam it to the cargo hold.
KIM: That may not be easy with all this radiation.
CHAKOTAY: We'd better bring transport enhancers. Set us down, Tom.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
NEELIX: Gently, please.
(Someone in a haz-mat suit watches them land.)

[Planet surface]

(Everyone is wearing environment suits as they walk through the driving snow and crunch through surface ice. They have split up into two groups.)
PARIS: I should have brought a holo-camera so I could show B'Elanna she's not missing anything. Can you believe she actually wanted to come with us?
CAREY: When my wife was pregnant, she didn't want to be coddled, either.
PARIS: And she's not half Klingon. Maybe it's us. Something about fatherhood seems to regress the male psyche a few thousand years.
(His tricorder beeps. He turns and picks up small round object.)
NEELIX: Tom, be careful.
(Paris presses a button, and Four Seasons plays.)
PARIS: It's a toy, like a music box.
CAREY: Vivaldi. I'm getting something. Ninety metres this way.
PARIS: Souvenir.
(Paris turns off the music and gives it to Neelix, who puts it in his satchel. They walk on.)
KIM: Commander, I'm detecting an antimatter signature ahead.
(They look down on large round structures set into the ground. Each has a hatch which slides open.)
CHAKOTAY: Looks like missile silos.
PARIS: Paris to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
PARIS: We've got a reading that could be the probe. It's inside a cave.
CHAKOTAY: Keep us posted.
(Chakotay and Kim step onto a silo hatch. Through the slit they can see the big missile sitting underneath them.)
CHAKOTAY: The warhead is still active.
KIM: It wouldn't have taken many of these to trigger a nuclear winter.
(And there are silos as far as the eye can see.)

[Cave]

NEELIX: People must have taken shelter here.
CAREY: That makes sense. The magnesite in these caves would have provided partial shielding from the radiation.
PARIS: Over here.
CAREY: What'd you find?
PARIS: Some kind of control room, or laboratory.
CAREY: Laboratory?
PARIS: Lots of diagnostic equipment. Looks like it was salvaged from a junk heap.
NEELIX: Or scavenged from the ruins.
CAREY: Particle scanners, circuit analysers. Most of it's still functional. They were working on something. (He pushes a box aside to brush the dust of a piece of painted metal. Friendship.)
PARIS: This is what we came for.
CAREY: Whoever lived here must have been studying it.
NEELIX: The data core's still intact.
PARIS: Start setting up the transport enhancers. Paris to Chakotay.

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
PARIS [OC]: We found the probe. Well, pieces of it, anyway.

[Cave]

PARIS: We're getting ready to beam it back up to the Flyer.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We'll meet you there.
NEELIX: Hello? Is someone there?
CAREY: The tricorder isn't reading any lifesigns.
(They are ambushed by the locals in their haz-mat suits.)

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(Chakotay and Kim return. Chakotay goes into the cockpit and hears the computer beeping about an open panel. Kim starts to put his helmet away in the storage cage when an alien hiding in there jumps him. Chakotay enters with his phaser drawn.)
CHAKOTAY: Don't move.
(The alien raises his weapon, so Chakotay shoots him.)
CHAKOTAY: You okay? Delta Flyer to Paris. Chakotay to away team. Respond.
(Whumph!)

[Delta Flyer - cockpit] 

KIM: They're antimatter weapons. Shields are offline. What are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: Getting us out of here.
KIM: What about the others?
CHAKOTAY: We can't do them any good if we're dead. We'll come back for them.

[Cave]

(The aliens keep hitting the away team.)
CAREY: Look, you're making a mistake.
(Carey gets a nasty blow to the head.)
VERIN: Leave them alone.
(The speaker removes his hood. His face has radiation scarring.)
VERIN: Who are you?
PARIS: I'm Lieutenant Tom Paris. We're from the Federation starship Voyager.
VERIN: What are these?
PARIS: They're transport enhancers. We were going to use them to retrieve our probe.
VERIN: Your probe? Too bad you didn't come for it sooner. It would have saved us a lot of suffering.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: We still can't contact the others or get a fix on their lifesigns.
JANEWAY: Why didn't we detect the aliens?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. Whoever they are, they have antimatter weapons.
JANEWAY: Antimatter?
TUVOK: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK: We're being hailed from the surface.
JANEWAY: The away team?
TUVOK: No.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. Who am I speaking with?

[Cave]

VERIN: My name is Verin. Your crewmen are my prisoners. 

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Why? We haven't done anything to harm you.

[Cave]

VERIN: You committed genocide.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I think there's been a misunderstanding. We arrived here
VERIN [OC]: You're from Earth?
JANEWAY: Yes.

[Cave]

VERIN: Then you're going to pay for what your people did to us.
JANEWAY [OC]: I'm sorry, I don't know what you're talking about.
VERIN: We're not as naive as you seem to think we are, Captain. Not any more.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What is it you want?

[Cave]

VERIN: I want you to get us off this planet. Find us a new home.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Release my crewmen and we can talk about it.

[Cave]

VERIN: No more talking. Your people won't be safe until mine are.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Listen, I don't respond well to threats.

[Cave]

VERIN: And I don't want to kill anyone, but I will if you don't cooperate. You have three hours

[Bridge]

VERIN [OC]: To begin evacuating us.
JANEWAY: Start scanning for the nearest M class planet.
TUVOK: You intend to meet his demands?
JANEWAY: I'm just keeping my options open. (to Chakotay) You're with me.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've analysed his garment. It's lined with magnesite.
JANEWAY: A makeshift environmental suit.
EMH: Unfortunately, the protection it offers is limited. His tissues are saturated with antimatter radiation. It explains why we couldn't detect his lifesigns. They're virtually indistinguishable from the environment.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we know that, maybe we can adjust our sensors to detect them.
JANEWAY: Let's wake him.
(The EMH complies.)
JANEWAY: What were you doing aboard our shuttle?
OTRIN: Trying to undo the damage you caused.
JANEWAY: If you're referring to what's happened on your planet, we had nothing to do with it.
OTRIN: Your people sent the probe, didn't they?
CHAKOTAY: Our ancestors sent it three hundred years ago to make contact with other species.
OTRIN: They did a little more than that. Am I your prisoner?
EMH: No. You're suffering from prolonged radiation exposure. I can treat you.
OTRIN: You can?
EMH: I believe I can.
OTRIN: In exchange for what?
EMH: Nothing.
OTRIN: I have a wife, friends.
JANEWAY: We might be able to help them, too. But not while our crewmen are being held hostage. You said you were trying to undo the damage we caused. What did you mean by that?
OTRIN: I was aboard your shuttle looking for technology that might help us neutralise the radiation.
CHAKOTAY: We saw missiles on the surface. Was the destruction caused by war?
OTRIN: Those missiles were built for defence. They were never launched.
JANEWAY: Then what accounts for the devastation?
OTRIN: A containment failure in our power grid. Once the antimatter was released, it destroyed everything.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, but I still don't see how we're responsible.
OTRIN: Before the probe, my people never conceived of anything like antimatter. We offer this information freely with the hope that one day we will stand on your soil and extend our hands in friendship. I'm sure you recognise those words.
JANEWAY: The recording from the probe.
OTRIN: Your people sent us technology that they knew would destroy us.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
OTRIN: We didn't either at first. But we had decades to think about it, and now it seems so obvious. You send us new technology, encourage us to use it, and then you wait for us to obliterate ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: Why would we do that?
OTRIN: Because it's easier than invading us.
JANEWAY: Do you really believe we'd contaminate a world we intended to conquer?
OTRIN: I'm a scientist. I believe what I see. And today I saw your people standing on our soil just as you promised, and they were wearing equipment that protected them from the radiation because they knew exactly what to expect. If you were in my position, what would you believe?

[Cave]

(The team have been stripped of their environment suits. Paris is with the unconscious Carey.)
PARIS: He might have a concussion. I need the medkit from my pack.
BRIN: I was told not to let you use your equipment.
(The woman holds out a metal bowl and cloth. Paris bathes the cut on Carey's head.)
PARIS: When's your baby due? My wife's pregnant, too. We're expecting a little girl in a couple of months.
BRIN: How do you know it's a girl?
PARIS: We have technology that allows us to examine the foetus. She has my eyes and her mother's cranial ridges. Is this your first?
BRIN: No.
PARIS: Oh? Boys? Girls?
BRIN: Two boys and a girl.
(Paris bandages Carey's head.)
PARIS: What are their names?
BRIN: They were all stillborn.
PARIS: I'm sorry.
BRIN: You're a doctor?
PARIS: No, I'm just a medic. But we have the best doctor in the quadrant back on Voyager. He might be able to help.
BRIN: I shouldn't be talking to you.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Our current coordinates, and the nearest M class planet one hundred thirty two light years away.
TORRES: At maximum warp that's about two months round trip.
JANEWAY: How many people are we talking about?
KIM: If these sensor modifications are correct, about fifty five hundred.
TUVOK: It would take at least seventeen trips. Almost three years to complete the relocation.
KIM: We've made sacrifices to help people before.
TORRES: What about Tom and the others? Are they supposed to rot down there until this relocation's finished?
JANEWAY: I don't think Verin's going to let go of his only bargaining chips.
TUVOK: Then we may have to use force.
JANEWAY: Not until we've exhausted every other option. These people believe that we're violent. I'm not going to do anything to reinforce that belief unless it becomes absolutely necessary.

[Sickbay]

(Seven enters.)
SEVEN: I've extracted the nanoprobes.
EMH: I'll begin reprogramming them.
(The EMH goes to the Medical lab.)
OTRIN: Nanoprobes?
SEVEN: Microscopic machines. Hopefully they'll help us repair your damaged tissue.
OTRIN: You said you extracted them. From where?
SEVEN: My bloodstream. They maintain my cybernetic implants.
OTRIN: Nanoprobes, cybernetic implants. Are others on your crew like you?
SEVEN: No, I'm unique.
OTRIN: You certainly are.
(Janeway comes in from the lab.)
JANEWAY: I need a word with your patient. You told me you've been looking for ways to neutralise the radiation.
OTRIN: All my life.
JANEWAY: Tell me about your work.

[Cave]

(Carey wakes.)
NEELIX: Lieutenant?
CAREY: I'm okay. My stomach's just a little queasy.
PARIS: Our inoculations must be wearing off.
NEELIX: I thought these caves were naturally shielded.
PARIS: They're no substitute for an environmental suit.
CAREY: These people have lived here all their lives without environmental suits.
NEELIX: These people have lived here without much of anything.
(A young girl peeks from behind a rock.)
YUN: Hello.
PARIS: Hello. It's all right. We're not going to hurt you. What's your name?
YUN: Yun.
PARIS: Mine's Tom. This is Joe, and Neelix.
YUN: You're not like them.
NEELIX: We're different species, but they're my friends.
YUN: They say you're going to take us on your ship and find us a new home.
NEELIX: I'm sure our captain is trying to help you.
PARIS: Neelix, where's our souvenir?
NEELIX: In my pack.
PARIS: Excuse me. We'd like to give her something. It's in the equipment bag. It's a toy.
(Brin fetches the globe. Paris turns the music on and gives it to Yun.)
VERIN: That could be a weapon.
(Verin snatches it away from Yun. Brin takes it and turns it off.)
BRIN: It's harmless.
VERIN: These men are dangerous. I want you to stay away from them. Understood?
(Yun leaves.)
PARIS: So much for making friends.
NEELIX: Mister Verin?
PARIS: What are you doing?
NEELIX: My job. I'm Voyager's ambassador, remember? Can I have a word with you?
(Verin and Neelix move away from the main group.)
NEELIX: Just between us, I understand why you don't trust humans.
VERIN: Then why are you with them?
NEELIX: They're not so bad once you get to know them. When I first met them I thought they were arrogant and self-righteous.
VERIN: I suppose you're going to tell me you've changed your mind.
NEELIX: Well, not completely. I still think they take themselves far too seriously for my taste. But one thing they don't do is harm other people.
VERIN: Are you blind?
NEELIX: No, I see very clearly what's happened to you, and I'd like to help.
VERIN: How?
NEELIX: My captain listens to me. I can speak to her on your behalf. Help her understand your situation.
VERIN: What do you know about our situation?
NEELIX: I know what you've been through. My planet was destroyed by a weapon called a Metreon Cascade. Hundreds of thousands of people were killed, including my family.
VERIN: How did you survive?
NEELIX: I was on a neighbouring planet when the weapon was detonated. I went back with a rescue team, but there was no one left.
VERIN: I'm sorry about what happened to your family, but don't compare your life to mine.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: The nearest suitable planet is simply too far away so, I'd like to propose

[Cave]

JANEWAY [OC]: An alternative.
VERIN: There is no alternative.
JANEWAY [OC]: Please, hear me out. We have one of your people aboard, a Mister Otrin. He has some interesting ideas about counteracting the radiation.
VERIN: Otrin has too many ideas.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I think his theories have merit. What he's lacked until now is the means to carry them out. If you release the hostages, we can work together. There's a good chance we could undo some of the damage to your environment.

[Cave]

VERIN: This isn't a negotiation.
JANEWAY [OC]: You don't seem to understand. It would take years to evacuate the entire planet.
VERIN: So instead you once again offer us the benefits of your technology.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What I'm offering you is a realistic alternative.

[Cave]

VERIN: If I release the hostages, what's to prevent you from leaving

[Bridge]

VERIN [OC]: Or attacking us?
JANEWAY: Look, I know you've suffered, and I know you don't trust us.

[Cave]

VERIN: You haven't given me any reason to.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Then why don't we start with a small step. You return one of the hostages and I'll send you a supply of food and medicine.

[Cave]

VERIN: You. What's your name?
CAREY: Joe Carey.
VERIN: Set up your transport enhancers.
(Carey takes the three rods from Verin and activates them.)
VERIN: I'm sorry, Mister Carey.
CAREY: Sorry?
VERIN: Your crewman's ready, Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Transport him to Sickbay.

[Cave]

(Carey is standing in the middle of the enhancers. Verin aims a weapon at him.)
PARIS: Hey, what the hell

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: Are you doing?
(The sound of an energy weapon firing.)
JANEWAY: Tom?
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to bridge.

[Sickbay]

EMH: They've killed Lieutenant Carey.
(Carey is on the deck with a hole through his heart.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: If you think murdering one of my crewmen is going to make me more receptive to your demands, you're mistaken.

[Cave]

VERIN: Don't force me to kill anyone else.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: All right, I'll evacuate your people. But our transporters aren't designed to accommodate large groups.

[Cave]

JANEWAY [OC]: We'll need time to modify them.
VERIN: We'll be ready within the hour. If you're not

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I understand. (to Chakotay) My ready room.

[Cave]

(Brin brings Paris and Neelix wooden bowls containing leaves.)
BRIN: You have radiation poisoning. This will make you feel better.
NEELIX: Thank you.
PARIS: Why are you helping us?
BRIN: Your child's going to need a father, isn't she?

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: The first phase of your therapy is complete. How do you feel?
(There are fewer lesions on Otrin's face.)
OTRIN: I can breathe more easily.
SEVEN: Your lungs were damaged by the radiation. The nanoprobes are repairing them.
OTRIN: It's incredible. If we could manufacture more of these, we might be able to treat everyone.
SEVEN: Unfortunately, Mister Verin has refused our help.
OTRIN: Did you expect him to cooperate?
SEVEN: His behaviour is irrational.
OTRIN: To you, maybe. But you haven't lived like we have.
SEVEN: No. But that doesn't mean that we're responsible for what's happened here.
OTRIN: You can't deny your people sent the probe.
SEVEN: They made an error in judgment. They failed to anticipate the consequences of their actions. But they never meant to destroy your world. Human culture has evolved, learned from its mistakes. So can yours.
OTRIN: Even if I believed you, Verin never would.
SEVEN: Then your people may need a change of leadership. Someone more open to new ideas.
OTRIN: I'm not a leader.
SEVEN: But you're a scientist. Someone who can see a problem and envision a solution. The same definition could apply to a leader.

[Cave]

PARIS: Doesn't seem fair, does it. My daughter, she'll have food medical care, everything she needs.
WOMAN: What's wrong?
(Brin is going into labour.)
WOMAN: We need help!
BRIN: It's the baby. It's too soon. Let him help me.
VERIN: Can you?
PARIS: I think so. But I'll need my med kit.

[Cave entrance]

(The Delta Flyer flies over.)
GUARD: Inform Verin.

[Cave]

PARIS: I'm losing the heartbeat.
BRIN: Oh, no.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
PARIS: Speeding up the contractions.
(He gives Brin a hypo.)
GUARD: Their ship's returned.
VERIN: Send out patrols. Double the guard at the entrance.
(The away team stun one member of a patrol approaching their position in the ruins.)
PARIS: I've got him! He's not breathing. Cardiostimulator. Three millijoules, now.

[Planet surface]

(Tuvok is ambushed.)
GUARD: Don't move. I'll take him to Verin. Tell the others. This way. Move!

[Cave]

PARIS: Increase the charge to five millijoules. Again. I'm reading a heartbeat.
(The baby starts crying. Paris hands it to Brin.)
PARIS: You have a son.
GUARD: One of the patrols took another prisoner.
VERIN: Put him with the others.
PARIS: We need to get him to Voyager.
VERIN: He stays here.
NEELIX: Mister Tuvok.
VERIN: Your Captain was foolish enough to think she could rescue you. Instead, she's given me another hostage.
(Tuvok's guard hands him a weapon. They stuns Verin and other men. Then the guard removes his hood.)
PARIS: Doc?
EMH: When you need to infiltrate a toxic environment, it helps to be a hologram.
TUVOK: Prepare the transport enhancers. Tuvok to Chakotay.

[Planet surface]

TUVOK [OC]: We secured the hostages.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Chakotay to Delta Flyer. Two to beam out.
(He steps into a set of pattern enhancers with Kim.)

[Cave]

BRIN: Thank you.
TUVOK: Now, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Your baby won't survive without treatment. I promise we'll bring him back.
BRIN: Take good care of him.
PARIS: I will.
(Paris joins the others inside the enhancers.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. Five to beam up.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Cute little fellow, isn't he? He's already responding to treatment.
JANEWAY: Once he's stabilised we'll transport him to the surface, and send along some food and medical supplies.
NEELIX: We're leaving?
JANEWAY: As soon as I report to Starfleet.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Captain, once the baby's back in that environment, he's just going to get sick again. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. We can't keep him from his mother.
PARIS: I'm not suggesting that. You told those people that we might be able to neutralise the radiation. Was that true?
JANEWAY: Yes, but they didn't want our help. I can't force it on them.
NEELIX: Maybe you should. If we help them without asking anything in return, it'll prove they're wrong about us.
JANEWAY: You're forgetting something. They killed Mister Carey. I'm not about to risk any more lives to help murderers.
PARIS: Captain, it was one man who killed Carey. If you saw how they were living, how desperate they are. I'm not saying we should ignore what happened, but humans did play a part in their suffering.
NEELIX: Intentional or not, that probe had a terrible impact on these people. If there's anything we can do to make up for that now, we at least have to try.

[Engineering]

OTRIN: I've adjusted the radiation levels to match the conditions on the surface. Watch. An isolitic chain reaction. It recombines the nucleonic particles in the atmosphere. (The gas goes sparkly red then clear.)
JANEWAY: How do we apply your methods on a planetary scale?
SEVEN: Atmospheric processors are one possibility.
JANEWAY: Too bad we don't have a Corps of Engineers to build them. What if we encase the catalytic agent in photon torpedoes? Use the concussive force to start the reaction.
SEVEN: It would require multiple detonations at low altitude, but I believe it could work.
OTRIN: Captain, an isolitic reaction of that magnitude would expand exponentially. Your ship might not survive.
JANEWAY: We'll have to modify our shields, reinforce structural integrity. Well, let's get started.

[Cave]

(Brin has her baby back. Otrin is almost completely cured of radiation sickness.)
BRIN: He's beautiful.
OTRIN: And they can give us enough medicine to treat everyone.
VERIN: Can they rebuild our cities? Bring back the people who died?
OTRIN: They're offering to help, and this time no one's coercing them.
VERIN: We can't trust these people. They just sent armed men to attack us.
OTRIN: They only wanted to rescue their hostages.
VERIN: Who knows what they wanted?
OTRIN: You're being irrational.
VERIN: What's irrational is cooperating with the enemy.
BRIN: Look at my child. They said that they would treat him, and they kept their word.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shield modifications online.
CHAKOTAY: Torpedoes?
SEVEN: Ready.
JANEWAY: Hail them.

[Cave]

VERIN: Listen to me.
JANEWAY [OC]: Otrin, we're ready to begin.
OTRIN: Understood. Good luck.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tom, take us down.
(Voyager shudders as it flies through the atmosphere.)
PARIS: We're ten thousand metres into the troposphere.
JANEWAY: Fire the first sequence.
(Two torpedoes light up the clouds.)

[Cave]

(The ground shakes.)
VERIN: They're attacking us.
OTRIN: It's only the shockwave from the detonations.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding at eighteen percent.

[Cave]

VERIN: Are you going to stand there while he helps them destroy us?
OTRIN: What are you doing?
VERIN: Fighting back.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, they're opening missile silos. They're targeting Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: At eighteen percent, our shields won't withstand an antimatter explosion.
TUVOK: We should return to orbit.
JANEWAY: Not yet. Fire the next sequence.

[Laboratory]

OTRIN: You can't launch those missiles.
VERIN: Hold him.
(Brin points a rifle at Verin.)
BRIN: Stop.
VERIN: What are you doing?
BRIN: I won't let you ruin our only chance for survival.
VERIN: You'd kill me?
BRIN: To save my child? Yes.
VERIN: Get that weapon away from her.
GUARD: No, sir.
(He points his weapon at Verin.)
VERIN: I've kept you alive. All of you!
OTRIN: And we're grateful for that. But survival isn't enough anymore.
VERIN: Are you in command now?
OTRIN: If I have to be.
YUN: Everyone, come outside. Hurry.
OTRIN: Bring him.

[Planet surface]

(The clouds lighten and clear, and sunlight breaks through.)
YUN: It's beautiful.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've retrieved Friendship One and resumed our course to the Alpha Quadrant, but the success of our mission had a very high price.

[Carey's quarters]

(Janeway sits at Carey's desk, looking at an almost complete model of Voyager in a bottle.)
CHAKOTAY: Impressive, isn't it? 
JANEWAY: The detail's amazing.
CHAKOTAY: Carey spent months working on it. He used to joke that he wouldn't be finished by the time we got back to Earth.
JANEWAY: He only had one nacelle to go.
CHAKOTAY: We were able to download the probe's memory core. We'll transmit the telemetry in the next data stream.
JANEWAY: I think about our ancestors. Thousands of years wondering if they were alone in the universe, and finally discovering they weren't. You can't blame them for wanting to reach out, see how many other species were out there asking the same questions.
CHAKOTAY: The urge to explore is pretty powerful.
JANEWAY: But it can't justify the loss of lives, whether it's millions or just one.


S7 E22
Natural Law
Stardate: 54827.7
Original Airdate: 2 May 2001

[Shuttlecraft]
(A standard Starfleet shuttlecraft is flying over a lush green forest.)
CHAKOTAY: Beautiful, isn't it?
SEVEN: A sensor analysis would have provided the necessary information.
CHAKOTAY: Just admiring the view.
SEVEN: The conference begins in less than an hour.
CHAKOTAY: There's always time for Warp Field Dynamics, but you don't see natural beauty like this every day.
(Whumph)
CHAKOTAY: What was that?
SEVEN: Some kind of energy barrier directly below us. It spans thousands of square kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't our sensors detect it?
SEVEN: Uncertain. It has an unusual tetrion signature. Species three one two used a similar technology. There's a power surge coming from the barrier.
CHAKOTAY: Shields at full.
SEVEN: They're creating some kind of feedback. We've lost impulse engines.
CHAKOTAY: Go to warp.
SEVEN: The warp core is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Warp engines don't just shut down when you scrape an energy barrier.
SEVEN: It's affecting all our systems.
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural failure in thirty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to beam to the surface.
SEVEN: We can't transport through the barrier. Transfer auxiliary power to the weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: What are you trying to do?
SEVEN: If I can realign our phasers to the correct frequency, I may be able to open a rift.
CHAKOTAY: Big enough to get a shuttle through, I hope?
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural failure in ten seconds, nine, eight.
SEVEN: Phasers reconfigured.
(Chakotay fires the phaser and flies the shuttlecraft through the resulting hole. They lose the nacelles as they go through, and beam out as the shuttlecraft tumbles to the ground.)

[Jungle]

SEVEN: The barrier's closed again.
(Chakotay's leg has been cut. He can barely walk on it.)
SEVEN: I should examine you.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think it's serious.
(He sits on a nearby log.)
SEVEN: You have a hairline fracture.
CHAKOTAY: We've got bigger problems. I'll be fine.
SEVEN: I'm detecting shuttle debris scattered over several square kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Some of it might still be functional.
SEVEN: If we can find the right components, we may be able to construct a beacon. Send a distress signal.
CHAKOTAY: Through the barrier?
SEVEN: Maybe.
CHAKOTAY: If we hurry we might still make that conference. Well, if we have to be stranded somewhere, we couldn't ask for a nicer place.
SEVEN: We wouldn't be stranded at all if you hadn't insisted on admiring the view.

[Delta Flyer]

(Paris pilots the Flyer to an orbital platform.)
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER [on monitor]: Guest Vessel 74656, this is Ledos Port Control. Shut down your engines.
PARIS: This is Lieutenant Tom Paris. Is there a problem?
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER [on monitor]: You were observed committing piloting violation two five six.
PARIS: I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with your regulations. It won't happen again.
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER [on monitor]: You'll be informed of the penalty.
PARIS: What kind of penalty?
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER [on monitor]: That's not my decision. Your docking permit says you're assigned to the starship Voyager?
PARIS: That's right.
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER [on monitor]: Your commanding officer will be notified of your infraction.

[Ready Room]

PARIS: Piloting lessons?
JANEWAY: Apparently, the standard penalty for your infraction is a three day course in flight safety, followed by a test.
PARIS: Well, did you explain we wouldn't be here that long?
JANEWAY: Actually, while you were completing your mission, Seven was invited to a four day conference.
PARIS: Here on Ledos?
JANEWAY: I decided to give the entire crew shore leave. It'll give you plenty of time to brush up on your piloting skills.
PARIS: I don't need lessons.
JANEWAY: Apparently the authorities disagree.
PARIS: But Captain
JANEWAY: You may not have known the Ledosians' rules, but you know ours. Comply with local law. Understood?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Jungle]

(Seven finds a small piece of the shuttlecraft.)
SEVEN: The relays are fused. It's useless.
(Chakotay's tricorder has picked up something else.)
CHAKOTAY: Looks like we're not the only ones here.
SEVEN: Indigenous wildlife, perhaps.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading residual lifesigns. They're humanoid.
SEVEN: Ledosian?
CHAKOTAY: No. But they share the same genetic traits. Whoever they are, they may be able to help us.
SEVEN: Unless they're hostile.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't we give them the benefit of the doubt. The lifesigns lead in that direction.
SEVEN: I suggest you rest your leg while I investigate.
CHAKOTAY: It's better is we stick together, at least until we know whether they're hostile.

[Above a clearing]

(Chakotay leans on Seven's shoulder as they make their way up a slope to look down on a group of people. One seems to be making a stone tool. They are wearing minimal leather garments and strings of beads.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm guessing they're pre-warp.
SEVEN: Obviously they can't help us.
CHAKOTAY: No, I don't suppose they can. But they're fascinating, aren't they? I never expected to run into people like these on such a technologically advanced planet.
SEVEN: This isn't an anthropological mission, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. We should keep searching for debris. Argh!
(He collapses in pain.)
SEVEN: You're developing an infection. You should rest.
CHAKOTAY: I'll have to stay here and try to keep out of sight.
SEVEN: I'll contact you if I find anything useful.
CHAKOTAY: I guess I don't have to tell you to avoid interacting with these people.
(Chakotay rests against a tree trunk.)

[Jungle]

(Seven locates another small piece of the shuttlecraft. It is still working.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Chakotay.

[Above a clearing]

SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to Chakotay.
(A red hand is reaching for the comm. badge. Chakotay pushes it away and opens his eyes to see three natives in front of him.)
SEVEN [OC]: Commander, respond. I've found something. Seven of Nine to Chakotay.
(One native snatches the comm. badge and smashes it with a stone. Seven puts the retrieved part in a case and walks on.)

[Cave - night]

(Seven sneaks past a group of natives gathered around a fire and tracks Chakotay's bio-signal to a cave. She finds Chakotay lying on a blanket, surrounded by natives.)
SEVEN: Step away from him.
(Her wrist beacon frightens them.)
CHAKOTAY: It's all right, Seven. They're friendly. They're treating my wound.
(His injured leg has been put in a splint. She turns off her beacon.)
SEVEN: You said we were supposed to avoid interaction.
CHAKOTAY: They found me. There was nothing I could do.
SEVEN: You should have tried to contact me.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't want to expose them to our technology.
SEVEN: You hid your comm. badge?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, your call scared them. They broke it.
SEVEN: I suggest we leave before they break anything else.
CHAKOTAY: Look, they're friendly, and I am hurt.
SEVEN: What are you suggesting?
CHAKOTAY: We may as well stay the night.
SEVEN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: It's good shelter. And my leg feels better since they put this dressing on. I'm going to get some rest. I suggest you do the same.
(Seven sits near Chakotay. One young girl reaches out and touches her cortical implant.)

[Corridor]

KIM: Chell says we shouldn't miss the Flame Gardens.
NEELIX: I hear the arboretum is beautiful, too.
TORRES: We can do both.
KIM: Tom. You joining us? Oh, that's right, you have to go to pilot school.
TORRES: I hear the course takes days.
PARIS: Yeah, for most people. But I did a little research. If the instructor agrees, you can skip the lessons and go right to the test. So I will be seeing you in a couple of hours.
NEELIX: You have to admire his optimism.

[Transporter Room]

TRANSPORTER OPERATOR: Just a moment, sir.
(An elderly man is beamed aboard.)
KLEG: I am Mister Kleg, the flying instructor. Are you Lieutenant Paris?
KIM: He is.
PARIS: It's an honour to meet you, sir. May I show you to the Delta Flyer?
KLEG: Why?
PARIS: So you can explain what I did wrong, and then administer the test.
KLEG: It sounds to me like you need lessons in patience as well.
TORRES: Oh, Tom is very patient, sir.
NEELIX: Never impulsive.
KIM: Take all the time you need. He'll enjoy the extra attention.
KLEG: Well, I'm please to hear it. We'll start with a review of safety procedures. Do you have a visual display system I can access?
PARIS: I think I can find one.
TORRES: Have fun.
KIM: Energise.
(Kim, Neelix and Torres are beamed away.)
PARIS: So how long will this review take?
KLEG: Oh, typically about four hours. But there's no rush.
PARIS: Of course not.

[Clearing - day]

(Chakotay is drawing a map in the dust for a local man. The young girl comes to watch, too.)
CHAKOTAY: River.
(The man looks blank, so he pours water onto the wavy line.)
CHAKOTAY: River.
(The man holds one arm horizontal across his body and the other underneath with the fingers moving. Chakotay copies him, then puts a stone next to the line on the ground.)
CHAKOTAY: Mountain.
(He points to it behind them.)
CHAKOTAY: Mountain.
(The man makes a fist rising upwards. Chakotay adds gestures to his own words.)
CHAKOTAY: Where are we?
(The man points to the place on the ground, then touches Chakotay's rank insignia.)
CHAKOTAY: This?
(The man takes a small item from his pouch, then gestures to Chakotay and himself and holds his palm out flat.)
CHAKOTAY: You want to trade? Well, I suppose it won't hurt.
(They trade items. The man gathers air into his hand and brings it to his heart.)
CHAKOTAY: I'll take that as a thank you.
(Seven returns.)
SEVEN: Did you make a favourable exchange?
CHAKOTAY: I didn't want to insult their customs. Any luck?
SEVEN: I may have found a way of communicating.
CHAKOTAY: Me too. I've learned to say thank you.
(He demonstrates. The girl is watching Seven.)
SEVEN: I was referring to communication with Voyager. It may be possible to construct a beacon by connecting these components to the shuttle's deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Did you find it?
SEVEN: I detected it six kilometres from here. I believe it's intact.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I'm up to that long a trip.
SEVEN: I'll go.
CHAKOTAY: I've started mapping the area. Here's the river we passed. This is where we beamed down. And we're here now.
SEVEN: Then the deflector should be approximately here.
CHAKOTAY: Six kilometres is a long way. Maybe one of them could guide you.
SEVEN: I'm still trying to limit our contact with these people.
CHAKOTAY: The sooner you get to the deflector, the sooner we can get out of here. They know the terrain. Maybe they can get you there faster.
SEVEN: And watch me construct a tetrion-based signalling device.
CHAKOTAY: All right, but be careful. Seven. This is how they say goodbye.
(A fist over the heart, then the arm extends out with an open downward palm. Seven leaves. She manages to trip over a tree root and lose her tricorder down a hole in the ground. As she cannot reach it, she moves on. Back at the clearing, the man makes Chakotay a stout walking stick.)
CHAKOTAY: Thank you.
(He hobbles over to a group of teenagers, and gestures fist over heart opening all fingers palm outwards.)
CHAKOTAY: Hello.
(Then he sees that they are painting copies of his tattoo on each other.)

[Jungle]

(It's dark, and a storm is brewing. Seven stumbles over a log and finds that she is walking in circles. Her hair is coming loose from its pleat. She sits down and hugs herself. There is a rustling nearby.)
SEVEN: Identify yourself.
(The girl comes and puts a blanket over Seven's shoulders, then scrapes a couple of stones together before squeezing the oils from nearby fruits on them to make a fire.)
SEVEN: An exothermic reaction.
(Seven turns off her wrist beacon as the fire brightens. She is offered part of a stick of dried food.)
SEVEN: I'm not hungry.

[Delta Flyer]

(In the shuttlebay, an impartial eye is not impressed with the craft's design.)
KLEG: Inadequate system integration. Visibility impaired by lateral sensor array. Insufficient console accessibility.
PARIS: You know, I couldn't agree more. Those are some of the defects that led to my so-called pilot error.
KLEG: Polarity thrusters? Oh, they've been known to cause accidental acceleration.
PARIS: Exactly my point. Why should I be held responsible for the ship's design flaws?
KLEG: According to the maintenance records, you were this vessel's chief designer. I make it a point of professional pride to research every case I'm assigned to. Are you familiar with that term, Lieutenant? Professional pride?
PARIS: Yes, sir. In fact, that is why I'm so eager to get underway. I want to prove to you that I'm a good pilot.
KLEG: There are protocols, Mister Paris. System by system diagnostics, pre-flight simulations.
PARIS: You must have other students who need your attention. It wouldn't be fair to
KLEG: Don't worry, Lieutenant. I'm planning to spend as much time with you as you need.

[Jungle - day]

(Seven wakes. The sky is clear and the birds are singing. The girl makes an open palms rising upwards gesture.)
SEVEN: Good morning.
(Seven makes a half-hearted response to the gesture. The girl offers food again, and this time it is accepted. Seven draws a map in the dirt)
SEVEN: I'm trying to go here.
(The girl points.)
SEVEN: Can you show me?
(The girl leads the way. They stop by some bright plants.)
SEVEN: Yes. I thought it was this way.
(But the girl shows her a triple waterfall instead.)
SEVEN: Yes, it's quite an impressive view. Now we really have to
(But the girl sits to look for a while, so Seven joins her.)

[Clearing]

(Chakotay goes to the man and touches his head and the back of his hand, indicating Seven's implants.)
CHAKOTAY: My friend, she hasn't come back. I need to find her.
(Chakotay draws in the dirt.)
CHAKOTAY: She looks like this. Where?
(The man gestures stay her, then brings a young woman to him, with a small piece of shuttle circuitry tied over her left eye)
CHAKOTAY: Where'd you get this?
(They show him a bag full of metal bits.)
CHAKOTAY: My friend. Where?

[Debris field]

(The nosecone of the shuttlecraft is stuck in the ground. The girl goes to touch a sharp edge.)
SEVEN: Don't touch that! Please.
(Her tone of voice is enough. The girl moves away as Seven works.)

[Astrometrics]

JANEWAY: Problem?
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay failed to report in at the scheduled time. We tried hailing, but there was no response.
KIM: We contacted the conference coordinator. He said Seven and Chakotay never showed up.
JANEWAY: Anything on sensors?
KIM: We've located a hull signature over the southern subcontinent, but it's only a wing.
JANEWAY: Nothing else? No lifesigns?
KIM: No, ma'am.
JANEWAY: That's awfully low for something to be in orbit.
TUVOK: It's not in orbit. It's resting on an energy barrier.
KIM: We think the shuttle may have collided with it.
JANEWAY: Why didn't they see it?
TUVOK: Standard scans didn't reveal its presence. We were only able to detect it with our Borg sensors.
JANEWAY: If all you found was a wing, maybe the rest of the shuttle made it through the barrier.
TUVOK: Logic suggests that possibility. Unfortunately, the barrier's deflecting all our scans. There's no way to know if the shuttle or its occupants are on the other side.
JANEWAY: Hail the Ledosian ambassador.

[Bridge]

AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: We'd have warned your Commander, but his flight plan didn't go anywhere near that area.
JANEWAY: He must have altered his route for some reason.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: And collided with the barrier. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: We're not assuming they're dead.
TUVOK: We believe they may have found a way through.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: That's very unlikely.
JANEWAY: They're resourceful people. Can you tell us anything about the barrier?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: It shields the territory of an indigenous society, the Ventu.
JANEWAY: Then the area's habitable. If you lowered the barrier, we could scan for our people's lifesigns.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid we can't do that.
JANEWAY: Why not?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: It was erected by aliens hundreds of years ago. They haven't been back. The technology is a mystery to us.
TUVOK: Why did these aliens build the barrier?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: To protect the Ventu.
JANEWAY: From whom?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: Us. Our ancestors fought them, polluted their habitat. I'm afraid we weren't very enlightened back then.
JANEWAY: Earth went through its dark periods too, Ambassador. Would you have any objections if we tried to lower the barrier, just to scan for our people?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I told you, it's not possible.
TUVOK: Perhaps if you gave us information about the barrier's power source?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: The generator is inside. There's no way to access it. Even if your people did survive, I'm afraid there's no way to get them out.

Captain's log, stardate 54827.7. Although the Ledosians are sceptical, they're allowing us to try to locate our people. Meanwhile, we've begun to analyse the shuttle fragment.

[Engineering]

TORRES: The burn patterns suggest a tetrion flux.
TUVOK: We found a reference to similar technology in Seven's Borg database.
JANEWAY: You think the Borg erected it?
TUVOK: No, but it may have been constructed by people they later assimilated. Species three one two.
JANEWAY: If Seven were here, she might be able to figure out a way to get through it.
TORRES: Maybe she already did. Some of the damage to the wing was caused by feedback from the shuttle's phasers.
JANEWAY: Seven and Chakotay might have used them to penetrate the barrier for some reason.
TUVOK: If I can determine the appropriate frequency, I may be able to do the same thing. But there is risk involved.
JANEWAY: What sort of risk?
TORRES: It looks like the feedback from the barrier is what destroyed the shuttle. If we're not careful the same thing could happen to Voyager.

[Debris field]

(The girl is making bracelets from pieces of magnetic rock. Seven activates her communication device, but the energy arcs to a nearby group of pebbles and fails.)
SEVEN: May I see those?
(Chakotay arrives with the man.)
CHAKOTAY: Seven, is everything all right?
SEVEN: I need your tricorder.
CHAKOTAY: Nice to see you, too.
SEVEN: I lost mine. There's a strong magnetic field here that's preventing me from generating a deflector beam. But the field drops off approximately four point eight kilometres in that direction.
CHAKOTAY: Can you transmit the signal from there?
SEVEN: Not through the barrier, but I may be able to neutralise it by generating a dampening field with our deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Even if you're right, this must weight five hundred kilos. How would we move it?
SEVEN: Some of them could help us.
CHAKOTAY: We shouldn't involve them.
SEVEN: Do I detect a change in attitude, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Your concern was justified. They've been gathering debris from the shuttle, using it to imitate us. I don't want them helping.
SEVEN: What's the alternative? Staying here? Allowing them to find all of the debris? If we neutralise the barrier, Voyager can transport us and our technology off the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Is there a possibility that this dampening field could disrupt the barrier permanently?
SEVEN: Unlikely. Once the deflector is deactivated the barrier should reinitialise.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hope you're right.

[Delta Flyer]

(The Flyer is negotiating a test course marked with beacons.)
KLEG: So you can execute a turn at less than three hundred kph. Well done, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Thanks. You know, I don't want to seem impatient again, but is there any way you'd let me take that test now?
KLEG: I thought I'd made myself clear about that. All my students complete the entire course.
PARIS: I understand, sir, but two of my friends are missing, and I'd like to help find them.
KLEG: Well, that's an admirable sentiment. But if I give you special treatment it wouldn't be fair to the others who have to take this course. Besides, why stop now? You're getting very close to becoming an adequate pilot.

[Rocky Rise]

(The Ventu are helping drag the nose cone, which presumably contains the shuttle's deflector, up a slope.)
SEVEN: Here, Commander.
(The natives put down their ropes and stand aside.)
SEVEN: Not so close.

[Bridge]

(Voyager tries to phaser the barrier. They get feedback along the energy line.)
KIM: Phasers are starting to overload.
JANEWAY: Can we divert any more power to the shields?
TUVOK: The shields are amplifying the feedback.
TORRES: The barrier's interfering with every system we activate.
JANEWAY: Cease fire. I'm open to suggestions.
TUVOK: We may be able to reconfigure a photon torpedo to detonate at the appropriate frequency.
JANEWAY: What about feedback?
TUVOK: A torpedo shouldn't create any. Theoretically.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Rocky Rise]

(Chakotay and Seven set up the communicator. The natives lean in to watch.)
SEVEN: They're too close.
CHAKOTAY: Back, behind the rise. Stay back.
(Seven starts up the deflector and moves away, as the girl sneaks around for a closer look.)

[Bridge]

KIM: The energy barrier's coming down.
JANEWAY: I thought you were still reconfiguring the torpedo.
TUVOK: I am. It's being deactivated from the inside.
JANEWAY: Harry, scan for lifesigns.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Rocky Rise]

(The girl comes forward to touch the shuttle debris whilst wearing one of the magnetic stone bracelets.)
SEVEN: Take it off!
(The girl gets zapped.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm only reading one comm. badge. It's Seven's.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Janeway to Seven.

[Rocky Rise]

JANEWAY [OC]: Are you and Chakotay all right?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: Stand by for transport.
SEVEN: Lock on to Commander Chakotay. I need more time.
JANEWAY [OC]: Is there a problem?
SEVEN: Someone's been injured. She requires medical attention.
JANEWAY [OC]: Do you need the Doctor?
SEVEN: I believe I can treat her. A medkit would be useful.
JANEWAY [OC]: Acknowledged.

Captain's log, supplemental. Seven has remained on the surface to tend to the injured Ventu girl, while Chakotay is being treated in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: The poultice healed the fracture and the infection. I'm impressed.
CHAKOTAY: They're impressive people. I just hope we haven't traumatised them.
JANEWAY: You did what you had to do to get out of there.
CHAKOTAY: Still, I think we transport all the shuttle debris back to Voyager as soon as possible.
JANEWAY: Agreed.

[Cave]

(The girl wakes up.)
SEVEN: Would you like some breakfast? I'm not hungry either.
(The girl touches the metal on Seven's hand.)
SEVEN: I admire your curiosity, but you should be more careful. It's time for me to leave.
(Seven gestures goodbye, the girl replies where?)
SEVEN: Back to my home.
(The girl offers her the blanket.)
SEVEN: That's very kind, but I have no use for it. I supposed I should respect your customs. Thank you.
BARUS [OC]: These botanical specimens indicate a high level of serum nitrates.

[Clearing]

BARUS: Catalogue those foliates.
SEVEN: Explain your presence here.
BARUS: Oh. You must be from Voyager.
SEVEN: Who are you?
BARUS:: My name is Barus. I'm the expedition leader.
SEVEN: What kind of expedition are you leading?
BARUS: We're conducting scans to evaluate the potential of this habitat.
SEVEN: Potential for what?
BARUS: Anthropological research, resource development. We've been waiting years for this.
SEVEN: What about the people who live here?
BARUS: We'll help them, of course.
SEVEN: How?
BARUS: With medicine, infrastructure, education. Whoever lowered this barrier did the Ventu a great favour.

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: That barrier has to go back up.
SEVEN: Isn't it possible the Ledosians will improve the lives of the Ventu?
CHAKOTAY: Improve them? How?
SEVEN: They're intelligent people. Exposure to education and technology may give them better opportunities.
CHAKOTAY: Can you honestly say that you know what's better for them?
SEVEN: No, I can't.
JANEWAY: Then what do you think we should do?
SEVEN: I'm uncertain.
JANEWAY: It's not like you to be on the fence.
SEVEN: When Commander Chakotay and I first encountered the Ventu, I found them primitive, of little interest to me. But as I spent time with them, I came to realise that they're a resourceful, self-reliant people. Their isolation may limit their potential, but if that isolation ends, so will a unique way of life.

[Bridge]

AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: We appreciate your help in opening this territory to exploration, Captain. It's an unprecedented opportunity.
JANEWAY: A short-lived opportunity, I'm afraid.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: After I transport our deflector back to Voyager, the energy barrier will go back up.
TUVOK: Naturally, you'll want to get your people out, so they won't be trapped inside as ours were.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: You have no right to limit our access to our own territory.
JANEWAY: I'm not trying to do that, but we have a strict policy about leaving our technology in the hands of other cultures. It often has damaging consequences.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I don't think you realise how important this is. It's not only the resources that interest us. The Ventu are our evolutionary ancestors. Our living history.
JANEWAY: I understand this is disappointing for you, but I'm afraid I have no choice.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: In the spirit of cooperation, I hope you'll reconsider.
JANEWAY: We're eager to resume course. Would an hour be enough time to evacuate your people?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: I'll make the arrangements.
(Later -_
KIM: We've transported all the remaining debris to the Cargo Bay.
SEVEN: I have a lock on the deflector assembly.
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: There's a Ledosian vessel on an intercept course. It's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields!
TUVOK: Direct hit to the transporters. They're offline.
JANEWAY: Get a weapons lock and hail them.
KIM: They're hailing us.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: What's going on?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: Our government has decided not to let you restore the barrier.
JANEWAY: And that justifies an unprovoked attack?
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: We only targeted your transporters to avoid harming your crew. I hope you'll show the same restraint.
JANEWAY: I don't find weapons fire of any kind restrained.
AMBASSADOR [on viewscreen]: If you want to avoid further conflict, I suggest you leave.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Take us out of orbit.
CHAKOTAY: What about the deflector?
JANEWAY: Is Tom still in the Flyer?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Hail him.

[Delta Flyer]

KLEG: Excellent, Mister Paris. Now, come about slowly.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Paris. Respond.
KLEG: Captain, I'd appreciate it if you didn't interrupt my student during his examination.
JANEWAY [OC]: I'm sorry

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: But something's come up.
PARIS: [OC]: What is it, Captain?
JANEWAY: Tom, I'm sending you some encrypted orders.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KLEG: This is highly irregular.
(Paris does a ninety degree turn on the y axis.)
KLEG: You're going much too fast.
PARIS: Yes, sir. I'm in a bit of a hurry.
KLEG: If you have any desire to pass this test, you will reduce your speed immediately.
PARIS: I wish I could do that, sir. I really do.
(The Ledosian ship fires at them.)
KLEG: What was that?
PARIS: Paris to Voyager.

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: I'm under attack.
JANEWAY: Give him some help, Mister Tuvok.
(Voyager drives off the Ledosian ship.)

[Delta Flyer]

(Paris beams the Ledosian expedition party aboard.)
BARUS: What have you done?
PARIS: We had to get you out of there before we close the barrier.
BARUS: You can't do that.
(He walks into a forcefield.)
PARIS: Just sit back and enjoy the ride. Paris to Voyager. I've got them.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Find the deflector.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: I'm getting a lock on it now.
(Whumph!)
PARIS: My transporters are offline.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: You'd better get out of there, Tom.
PARIS [OC]: Not yet.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: I've got an idea.
KLEG: I am sorry to inform you, Mister Paris, but you have failed this examination. You will no longer be allowed to operate a vessel within Ledosian space.
PARIS: Something tells me that's not going to be a problem.
(The Flyer swoops down through the atmosphere, phasers the deflector into molecules and gets out just as the barrier closes behind it.)

[Cargo bay]

CHAKOTAY: This is a beautiful blanket.
SEVEN: Take it if you'd like. I don't need it.
CHAKOTAY: If environmental systems ever go down, you might get cold. You know, I
SEVEN: I'd like to
CHAKOTAY: You first.
SEVEN: Please, continue.
CHAKOTAY: In all the excitement, I never apologised.
SEVEN: For what?
CHAKOTAY: Causing you to miss that conference.
SEVEN: As a matter of fact, I wanted to thank you for that.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you were angry.
SEVEN: I was, but you were right. Warp Mechanics can be studied any time. The Ventu, on the other hand.
CHAKOTAY: Something's still bothering you?
SEVEN: I'm concerned for their well-being.
CHAKOTAY: They know how to take care of themselves.
SEVEN: That's not what I mean. Members of the Ledosian expedition had the opportunity to scan my deflector modifications. In time, they may find a way to duplicate our technology and remove the barrier themselves.
CHAKOTAY: I supposed it's possible.
SEVEN: If I'd never made those modifications
CHAKOTAY: We might still be stranded there. I don't know about you, but I'm glad to be back on Voyager.
SEVEN: As am I.


S7 E23
Homestead
Stardate: 54868.6
Original Airdate: 9 May 2001

[Mess hall]
(Rock and roll music is blaring from a jukebox. Neelix is handing out snacks.)
TORRES: Now, these are delicious.
KIM: Leave some for the rest of us.
TORRES: Hey, I'm eating for two.
PARIS: Great party, Neelix.
NEELIX: Everybody seems to be enjoying it.
PARIS: Yeah, except the Doc.
NEELIX: Those are for eating, not scanning.
EMH: What exactly are they?
NEELIX: Cheese pirogues. Zefram Cochrane's favourite.
EMH: They have absolutely no nutritional value.
NEELIX: This is a party, Doctor. Sometimes you have to forget about nutrition.
EMH: You could include a vitamin supplement when you replicate them.
NEELIX: Replicate? I made them myself.
JANEWAY: You two have outdone yourselves. I've never seen First Contact Day celebrated quite like this. When I was your age, all it meant was a day off from school.
NAOMI: Neelix and I thought we should make it more fun.
JANEWAY: Well, you certainly succeeded.
NAOMI: When is Commander Tuvok making his presentation?
NEELIX: Well, now's as good a time as any. Captain?
(Neelix hands Janeway the tray of snacks.)
NEELIX: May I have everyone's attention, please? In honour of the three hundred and fifteenth anniversary of his ancestors' arrival on Earth, I've asked Mister Tuvok to recite the first words spoken to humans by a Vulcan. Commander.
TUVOK: Is this really necessary?
NEELIX: You promised.
TUVOK: Very well. Live long and prosper.
(Applause.)
NEELIX: And now, for some more of Zefram Cochrane's favourite music. Hey, come on, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: Vulcans do not dance.
NEELIX: But it's tradition.
TUVOK: There is no tradition, Mister Neelix. This ceremony is entirely your invention.
JANEWAY: This is an official ship function, Commander. Don't make me order you to dance.
(Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: Sorry to interrupt, but I've got some interesting news. Neelix, you might want to hear this. Long range sensors have detected several hundred lifesigns approximately four point nine light years away. They're Talaxian.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: Are we there yet?
JANEWAY: Not exactly. The lifesigns appear to be coming from inside that asteroid field.
NEELIX: From a ship?
TUVOK: We are not detecting any vessels.
NEELIX: No response from hails?
KIM: Not yet.
NEELIX: I hope they're all right.
CHAKOTAY: There's a lot of interference. Maybe they haven't received our transmissions.
NEELIX: Can we move in any closer?
PARIS: Voyager's too big to manoeuvre safely in there. We could take the Flyer.

[Delta Flyer]

NEELIX: It wouldn't have hurt you to do a few steps.
TUVOK: I am trying to concentrate on the shields, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: I think you were just afraid.
TUVOK: That's absurd.
NEELIX: It's understandable. There were a lot of people watching.
TUVOK: Vulcans don't experience fear.
NEELIX: I'm going to make it my personal mission to get you to dance at least once before we reach Earth.
TUVOK: Then I suggest you find a more productive hobby.
PARIS: If you two don't stop it, I'm going to come back there and separate you.
TUVOK: I've localised the lifesigns, bearing one zero eight mark twenty six. They appear to be inside a large asteroid.
NEELIX: Inside?
(Whumph!)
NEELIX: What was that?
TUVOK: A thermalyte explosive, thirty point six kilometres to port. I'm detecting another projectile heading directly toward us. Evasive manoeuvres.
(The projectile hits an asteroid, shattering it.)
TUVOK: We've lost shields.
PARIS: Main propulsion is offline. We're going to have to make an emergency landing.
NEELIX: Where?
PARIS: The Talaxians' asteroid is the closest.
TUVOK: The surface is covered with craters, ice fields.
PARIS: We don't have a choice. Hold on.
(The Delta Flyer slides across the asteroid surface before bumping and skidding to a stop.)

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Problem?
SEVEN: We've lost contact with the away team. I also detected some unusual energy discharges in the asteroid field.
JANEWAY: What kind of discharges?
SEVEN: It's difficult to tell because of the interference, but they appear to be thermalytic explosions. I believe several of them were in close proximity to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: Source?
SEVEN: Unknown.
JANEWAY: We'll need to send a rescue team. Work with B'Elanna. Try to modify the shields on one of the shuttles to withstand these explosions.

[Dexa's quarters]

{Neelix is on a bed, having a head wound tended to. His nurse is a Talaxian woman.)
DEXA: Stay still. Don't worry, it's not serious.
NEELIX: Am I inside the asteroid?
DEXA: Yes. This is my home.
NEELIX: Where are my friends?
DEXA: If you mean the aliens who were on the ship with you, they're safe.
NEELIX: I'd like to see them.
DEXA: You need to rest. What were you doing in the asteroid field?
NEELIX: Looking for you. Well, not you specifically. But my ship detected Talaxians. I haven't come across any in years, so. I'm sorry, I'm Neelix.
DEXA: Dexa. I had an uncle named Neelix. Are there other Talaxians on your ship?
NEELIX: I'm the only one.
DEXA: Why are you living with aliens?
NEELIX: They're my friends. Did you receive our hails?
DEXA: Yes.
NEELIX: Why didn't you respond?
DEXA: We avoid contact with outsiders.
NEELIX: We were attacked. There were explosions. Did you?
DEXA: No. We're not violent.
NEELIX: Who fired at us?
DEXA: No one fired at you. There are miners who use explosive charges to break apart the asteroids so they can collect minerals from the debris.
NEELIX: I wish we'd known.
DEXA: Why were you carrying weapons?
NEELIX: It's standard procedure for an away mission. Hello. What's your name?
(A little boy peers around a corner.)
BRAX: Brax. What's yours?
DEXA: I told you not to come in here.
BRAX: I just want to see him.
DEXA: You're supposed to be helping Oxilon.
BRAX: He doesn't look dangerous to me.
(Brax leaves.)
NEELIX: I think you have the wrong idea about us.
DEXA: I'm not supposed to be talking to you at all.
NEELIX: I'm feeling better. I'd like to see my friends now.
(Dexa activates a forcefield across the bed alcove.)
NEELIX: What are you doing?
DEXA: I've been told not to let you leave.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: Still no response to hails.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the shuttlebay.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's the status of the shield modifications?
SEVEN [OC]: Lieutenant Torres and I will be finished in a few minutes.
JANEWAY: Good. (to Chakotay) Take an away team and find them.
KIM: Captain, there's a ship approaching from astern. We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(This person is not Talaxian.)
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: Identify yourselves.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: Commander Nocona. This is our asteroid field.
JANEWAY: We weren't aware of that.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: Now you are.
JANEWAY: We lost one of our shuttles inside the field. We're preparing to send a rescue team.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: All the resources belong to us.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in the resources. We were only trying to make contact with the Talaxians.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: What's your interest in them?
JANEWAY: One of my crewmen is from Talax. He was eager to meet some of his people.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: You should have requested permission before sending in a shuttle. We have a mining operation in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Does that explain the explosions we detected?
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: Mining charges.
JANEWAY: We'd appreciate it if you'd stop using them until we can get our people out.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry. We're on a strict deadline. But I'll conduct a search for your crew. If they need help, we'll provide it.
JANEWAY: That's kind of you, but we're prepared to go in and get them ourselves.
NOCONA [on viewscreen]: I cannot guarantee your safety if you enter the asteroid field. Stay here. We'll contact you when we find your people.

[Dexa's quarters]

NEELIX: I don't think you're supposed to be here.
BRAX: This is my home. You can't tell me what to do.
NEELIX: No, of course not. I just don't want you to get in trouble. Is that a model ship? What's it called? How about The Two-Tailed Talchok? The Fur Fly? The ship I come from is called Voyager.
BRAX: Is it big?
NEELIX: And fast.
BRAX: Can I see it?
NEELIX: I think it would be a little difficult to take you there while I'm stuck here. But if your mother would let me out
(The sound of a metal door opening.)
BRAX: That's her.
NEELIX: You better hide.
BRAX: You won't tell her I'm here?
NEELIX: No, of course not.
(Brax puts his model ship on a table and hides behind it.)
DEXA: Neelix, this is Oxilon, our council regent.
NEELIX: I wish I could say it was nice to meet you, but this wasn't exactly the welcome I was expecting.
OXILON: You're free to go now.
(He  lowers the forcefield.)
NEELIX: What about my friends?
OXILON: We've determined they aren't hostile. They've been treated for their injuries and asked to leave.
DEXA: They're aboard your shuttle making repairs. I'll take you there.
NEELIX: Well, now that everything has been cleared up, maybe we could talk, get to know each other a little.
OXILON: If you like.
NEELIX: My friends, too?
OXILON: I'm sorry.
NEELIX: Why not?
OXILON: We've learned from experience to keep to ourselves.
NEELIX: Well, if they're not welcome, I'm not staying either.
OXILON: That's your choice.

[Public area]

DEXA: I know Oxilon seems overly cautious, but we're not used to having visitors.
NEELIX: How many of you live here?
DEXA: Close to five hundred. All of our homes are connected to the central cabin by tunnels and lifts. They allow us to easily move from one section of the asteroid to another.
NEELIX: It must have taken years to build all of this.
DEXA: Almost five. It still isn't finished.
NEELIX: Where did the technology come from?
DEXA: We arrived here with a caravan of six ships. We disassembled all but one of them and modified their components. We converted torpedo launchers to blast away rock and excavate these tunnels. These conduits run into the asteroid's core. We use geothermal energy to melt the ice that covers most of the outer surface. It provides us with oxygen and water.
NEELIX: Who'd have imagined all of this inside an asteroid? Your son seems like a wonderful boy.
DEXA: How would you know? You only met him for a few seconds.
NEELIX: True, but I'm a quick judge of character.
DEXA: He came to see you while I was out, didn't he?
NEELIX: You can't blame him for being curious.
DEXA: Hmm. He's a lot like his father. No fear.
NEELIX: I'd like to meet your husband.
DEXA: He's dead.
NEELIX: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to
DEXA: It's all right. You didn't know.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: Neelix. Are you all right?
NEELIX: I'm fine. Dexa, this is Lieutenant Paris, and Commander Tuvok.
PARIS: Thanks for bringing him back. We were getting worried.
NEELIX: It was nice to meet you.
(Dexa leaves.)
NEELIX: So, what can I do to help?
PARIS: You can give me a hand with this plasma manifold. How did it go?
NEELIX: Well, er, they didn't exactly send out a welcoming committee, but I'm sure they had their reasons. I guess my expectations were a little high.
TUVOK: I regret that you didn't have a more fulfilling experience.
NEELIX: That's nice of you to say, Commander, but it wasn't a complete waste of time. I got to meet some of my people again, even if it was a short visit. Who knows, it's probably the last time I'll ever see another Talaxian.
(Later, repairs are complete.)
PARIS: Good work. Now we need to run a systems
COMPUTER: Intruder alert.
PARIS: At least we know internal sensors are working.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]

(A small child is hiding amongst the environmental suits.)
NEELIX: Brax.
TUVOK: You know him?
NEELIX: We're old friends.
BRAX: You said you'd take me to see Voyager.
NEELIX: I don't think your mother would approve.
BRAX: You won't tell her I was here, will you?
NEELIX: Here? I, I have no idea what you're talking about. I'll be right back.

[Asteroid corridor]

OXILON: Three days isn't nearly enough time for us to dismantle all our equipment.
NOCONA: Then you should have begun the first time we asked. We can't wait any longer. Demolition of the asteroid is going to start whether you're here or not.
DEXA: You'd kill us?
NOCONA: We don't want to hurt anyone, but our patience has run out.
OXILON: We've only got one ship. There won't be enough room for any of our belongings.
NOCONA: It's not our fault you took apart your other vessels.
DEXA: You can't do this.
OXILON: Dex, don't provoke him.
DEXA: Where are we supposed to go?
NOCONA: I'm sure you'll find a home somewhere.
DEXA: This is our home. You have no right to make us go.
(Nocona pushes her aside.)
BRAX: Leave her alone!
(Brax throws a stone at Nocona.)
NOCONA: Bring him here!
NEELIX: Don't touch him!
MINER: Are you going to stop me?
(Nocona shoves Neelix, who retaliates and wins the fight. He aims Nocona's weapon at another alien, who was about to draw his own.)
NEELIX: You've said what you've come to say. Now I suggest you leave.
NOCONA: You have three days to evacuate.
(The aliens leave.)
DEXA: You can see now why we're suspicious of outsiders,
OXILON: Thank you for protecting the boy, but I'm afraid your actions might make things worse.
DEXA: How could they get any worse?
OXILON: Fighting back has never done anything but cause us more trouble.
DEXA: And what has running away ever done for us?
OXILON: It's kept us alive.
DEXA: Maybe it's time we stayed and defended ourselves. Will you help us?
NEELIX: I agree with Oxilon. Fighting isn't the answer. But I'll try to help.
DEXA: How?
NEELIX: Well, we could talk to my captain. Maybe she can negotiate with the miners, get them to agree to let you stay.
OXILON: Your captain would be willing to do that?
NEELIX: The best thing would be for you to come to Voyager. Talk to her yourself.
BRAX: I want to go too.
DEXA: Shush, Brax.
NEELIX: Why don't you both come? I've seen your home. I'd like you to see mine.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: Commander Chakotay, I'd like you to meet Dexa And Brax.
CHAKOTAY: Welcome to the bridge.
NEELIX: And this is Ensign Kim.
BRAX: What's this?
NEELIX: This is an Engineering station, and over there is Tactical, and down there is the helm. And this is the Captain's chair.
BRAX: Which station is yours?
NEELIX: Well, actually, I don't have a specific, er, I'm more of a
KIM: Neelix does too many things to have just one station. He's our Ambassador, morale officer
CHAKOTAY: Trade negotiator. Without a doubt, he's the most versatile member of our crew.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: As you can see, our sensors are extremely precise. We can scan for life signs light years away.
NEELIX: That's how we found you.
SEVEN: I have something else that may interest you.
(Seven calls up an image of a planet.)
BRAX: What is it?
DEXA: Talax. You can scan that far away?
SEVEN: No, this image is from our database.
DEXA: It's as beautiful as I remember.
(They zoom in to view features.)
NEELIX: There's the Godo mountain range.
DEXA: And the Axiana Lakes. That was always one of my favourite places.
NEELIX: Mine too.
BRAX: Why don't we just go back to Talax? We could live there.
DEXA: It's still controlled by the Haakonians. They don't treat Talaxians very well. That's why we left.
BRAX: Maybe Neelix could go with us, and we could fight them. Take the planet back.
NEELIX: If tomorrow's negotiations go well, you won't have to go anywhere.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Next stop, Engineering.
BRAX: The warp core.
NAOMI: Neelix.
NEELIX: Naomi! I'm sorry, I forgot all about our Kadis-kot game.
NAOMI: That's all right. I know you're busy. I just wanted to meet your friends.
NEELIX: Of course. Dexa, Brax, this is my goddaughter, Naomi.
NAOMI: Hey.
DEXA: You live on a beautiful ship.
NAOMI: Thanks. Maybe Brax would like to go to the holodeck.
NEELIX: That's a great idea.
NAOMI: Lieutenant Paris has a new programme. Invaders from the Ninth Dimension.
NEELIX: Sounds scary.
NAOMI: Very.
BRAX: What's a holodeck?
NAOMI: Neelix is right. Might be too scary for you.
BRAX: I'm not afraid. Can I?
(The children leave.)
DEXA: You're lucky to have found these people. They obviously think a great deal of you.
NEELIX: The feeling's mutual.

[Guest quarters]

(Neelix pours himself and Dexa a drink.)
NEELIX: To the Axiana Lakes.
DEXA: It really is delicious.
NEELIX: I've been saving it for fifteen years. I wasn't sure I'd ever open it, but tonight seemed like the right occasion. Would you like some more taga cake?
DEXA: A little, please. I haven't had this in years.
NEELIX: I'm glad you like it. It's a family recipe.
DEXA: You're a good cook. I haven't seen Brax this happy since his father was alive.
NEELIX: How did he? I'm sorry. You probably don't want to talk about it.
DEXA: I don't mind. We'd settled on a planet call Phanos. There was a lot of unoccupied territory, but the government restricted us to a very small area.
NEELIX: Why?
DEXA: They said it was a quarantine to protect the population from alien diseases. But it was just an excuse. We were outsiders. They didn't want us mixing with their people. It wasn't long before we realised we didn't have enough land to grow what we needed to feed ourselves. Oxilon said we'd just have to conserve our resources. But my husband was tired of being told what to do, so he started farming outside the restricted zone.
NEELIX: They didn't like that.
DEXA: A security patrol confronted him. He told them he had to provide for his family, that he wasn't afraid of them. There was a fight. He was killed.
NEELIX: I'm sorry.
DEXA: After that, we came here. We thought we'd finally found a place where no one would bother us.
NEELIX: Maybe this time it'll be different.
DEXA: Maybe. But even if it isn't, thank you for trying.
NEELIX: I should get a good night's sleep if I'm going to be my best at the negotiations tomorrow.
DEXA: Neelix? It's been a wonderful day.
(Neelix leaves.)

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Isn't there enough to mine here, without destroying their home?
NOCONA: Their home contains more than thirty percent of the field's ore. Without that asteroid, the operation isn't worth the expense.
NEELIX: Would you be open to some kind of compensation?
NOCONA: All we want are the minerals.
OXILON: And you'd kill us to get them.
NEELIX: Wait. The Talaxians have found a way to produce a lot of geothermal energy. Maybe they could share it with you.
NOCONA: What do you mean, share?
NEELIX: You could convert it into fuel to power your ships.
NOCONA: The energy they generate isn't compatible with our technology.
JANEWAY: We'd be willing to help you make the modifications.
NOCONA: We have quotas to meet. We don't have time for that.
JANEWAY: Commander, the future of more than five hundred people is at stake here.

[Mess hall]

(Over a game of Kadis-kot, watched by Dexa.)
NAOMI: And once, there was a transporter accident. Neelix and Commander Tuvok got combined to make a completely different person.
BRAX: Really?
NAOMI: You don't think I could make up a story like that, do you?
(Neelix enters.)
BRAX: Hello, Neelix.
NAOMI: Do you want to play Kadis-kot?
NEELIX: Maybe later.
(Dexa and Neelix move away.)
DEXA: I knew it wouldn't work.
NEELIX: We did get them to make a small concession. They've extended the deadline. You'll have enough time to dismantle your equipment.
DEXA: Thanks, but there's too much to take with us.
NEELIX: Captain Janeway has agreed to ferry all of you and your supplies to the nearest M class planet.
DEXA: Come on, Brax. We're going home.
BRAX: Why?
DEXA: We have to pack. Come on.
BRAX: You said you were going to help us.
DEXA: Brax.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: You wanted to see me.
NEELIX: I've detected five warp capable species within two light years of the planet where we're taking the Talaxians. I'm worried they might be vulnerable to attack.
TUVOK: They would be vulnerable anywhere.
NEELIX: I thought maybe you could help me devise some defence strategies for their new home.
TUVOK: Frankly, Mister Neelix, they don't seem inclined to defend themselves.
NEELIX: No, I suppose not.
TUVOK: But if they were going to make a stand, their emotional attachment to their present home might be an asset.
NEELIX: Are you saying they should stay?
TUVOK: I'm speaking hypothetically.
NEELIX: Hypothetically, if they wanted to defend the asteroid, how would they do it?
TUVOK: To begin with they would need to establish some kind of perimeter.
NEELIX: You mean shields?
TUVOK: Yes. The miners are monitoring the asteroid. If they detected the Talaxians erecting a shield, they would attempt to stop them.
NEELIX: I suppose so.
TUVOK: Your people would need competent leadership to defend against a pre-emptive attack.
NEELIX: If you had the captain's permission, would you be willing to provide that leadership?
TUVOK: Certainly not. It would be a violation of the Prime Directive. And even if it weren't, I don't believe that I am the person most qualified to assume that role.
NEELIX: You mean me?
TUVOK: I am merely speaking hypothetically.
NEELIX: I couldn't lead those people, Mister Tuvok. I'm not a fighter. I'm just a cook who sometimes imagines himself to be a diplomat.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Mister Neelix. You are much more than that. You are perhaps the most resourceful individual I have ever known.
NEELIX: I always thought you just tolerated me.
TUVOK: You do have some annoying habits. However, during your time on Voyager you've developed many valuable skills. Skills that would serve you well if you ever decided to assume a leadership role.
NEELIX: You really think so?
TUVOK: Let me be clear. I'm not urging you to do anything. I'm simply telling you that I believe that you are more than capable.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Going somewhere, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Just to see my friends.
JANEWAY: Chakotay tells me you're using your own ship. Why not have Tom take you in the Flyer?
NEELIX: I didn't want to bother anyone.
JANEWAY: You wouldn't be planning anything foolish, would you?
NEELIX: Whatever I do, I promise it won't involve Voyager.
JANEWAY: That wasn't my question.
NEELIX: I know you have Prime Directive issues. But I'm not officially part of your crew, so I don't have the same constraints.
JANEWAY: You're as much a part of this crew as anyone else.
NEELIX: Are you ordering me not to go?
JANEWAY: That depends on what you're going to do.
NEELIX: It's up to the Talaxians.
(Janeway opens the shuttlebay doors.)
JANEWAY: Safe journey, Mister Neelix.

[Public area]

(Back inside the asteroid, Neelix addresses a crowd.)
NEELIX: I know from personal experience that you have forcefield emitters. We could use them to establish a shield grid. We'd need to deploy a series of them on the asteroid's surface, along bisecting diameters. Sixteen emitters should be enough to form a grid.
OXILON: Even if you're right, it'd take weeks to dig that many tunnels to the surface.
NEELIX: Commander Tuvok suggested that we could modify the emitters so they could be fired from torpedo tubes on your ship and planted in the surface.
OXILON: As soon as the miners realised what we were doing, they'd attack.
NEELIX: I could provide cover from my ship. But you're right, we'd have to work quickly.
DEXA: We could route power to the emitters directly from the core. They'd have a permanent energy supply.
NEELIX: Good idea.
OXILON: If we do what you're suggesting, people are going to be hurt.
NEELIX: This is your home. The miners have no right to force you out.
OXILON: I agree. But fighting?
NEELIX: I don't like it either but at some point you have to stand up for yourselves. How do you know there won't be someone else to terrorise you the next place you go?
DEXA: You know he's right.
NEELIX: No one has worked harder to build this place than you. Isn't it worth defending?

[Asteroid control area]

(The emitter torpedoes are carried through.)
NEELIX: Wait for my comm. call. As soon as the last emitter's in place, start routing power to the grid.
DEXA: Understood.
NEELIX: You're scared, aren't you?
DEXA: You?
NEELIX: Terrified.
DEXA: Be careful.
NEELIX: I will.
OXILON [OC]: Oxilon to Neelix. The emitters are loaded. We're ready.
NEELIX: I'll see you soon.
(He starts to leave. She pulls him back and they kiss.)

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: Two more and we're done.
OXILON [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Oxilon's ship]

OXILON: We're moving into position for the next one.

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: The miners' ship is on an intercept course. Evasive manoeuvres.

[Oxilon's ship]

OXILON: They're targeting our shields.
NEELIX [OC]: I'll deal with them.

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: Just focus on your job. All right, Mister Vulcan, let's see if you were right about me.

[Asteroid control centre]

(An explosion brings down a little debris.)
DEXA: Neelix, you have to hurry.
NEELIX [OC]: Just one more emitter

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: And you can activate the shield.
(Neelix destroys another mining charge dropping towards the asteroid. His ship takes a weapons hit.)
NEELIX: Neelix to Oxilon. 

[Oxilon's ship]

NEELIX [OC]: My weapons are offline.
OXILON: We're not in position yet.
NEELIX [OC]: You have to get there. They're going to launch another charge.

[Asteroid control centre]

(The charge is launched. Neelix heads to intercept it.)
DEXA: Neelix, what are you doing?
NEELIX [OC]: Don't worry about me.

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: Just get ready to bring the grid online.

[Delta Flyer]

(The Flyer blows up the charge just before it hits Neelix' ship.)
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer to Neelix. Are you all right?

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: Fine, Captain. But you shouldn't be here.

[Delta Flyer]

NEELIX [OC]: You're violating the Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: We're just helping a friend in distress.

[Asteroid control centre]

(The shield goes online just as the miners drop a whole flurry of mining charges. They explode harmlessly.)
DEXA: Dexa to Neelix. The shield's holding. 

[Neelix's ship]

DEXA [OC]: You did it.
NEELIX: We did it.

Captain's log, stardate 54868.6. Commander Nocona seems to have given up his attempts to penetrate the Talaxians' shield. Voyager's ready to get underway, but we're giving Mister Neelix time to say a difficult goodbye to his new friends.

[Dexa's quarters]

OXILON: We're grateful for everything you've done.
NEELIX: I'm just happy things worked out, and I'm glad that I could spend some time here with all of you. I'd better go.
BRAX: Stay here.
DEXA: He can't, Brax. He has responsibilities on Voyager.
NEELIX: I promise I'll stay in touch as long as I can.

[Wildman's quarters]

NAOMI: Come in.
NEELIX: Hi.
NAOMI: Neelix.
NEELIX: What are you working on?
NAOMI: A report on proto-humanoid cultures, for Commander Chakotay's palaeontology class.
NEELIX: Need some help?
NAOMI: I'm almost finished.
NEELIX: Do you have time for a game of Kadis-kot?
NAOMI: I have to get up early.
NEELIX: I guess you'd better get to sleep then. Do you want me to tuck you in? Tell you a bedtime story?
NAOMI: You haven't done that in years.
NEELIX: Just think of all the stories you've missed.
NAOMI: Thanks, Neelix, but I can put myself to bed. I'm not a little girl anymore.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: I didn't think anyone else stayed up this late.
NEELIX: I wouldn't want you to have coffee all by yourself.
JANEWAY: Have a seat.
NEELIX: I've been thinking about something. It's a little hard to put into words, and I haven't really made a decision yet. And of course I would never ignore my responsibilities on Voyager.
JANEWAY: Of course not.
NEELIX: I take them very seriously.
JANEWAY: I know you do. I've been thinking about something, too. Maybe you could help me.
NEELIX: I'd be happy to.
JANEWAY: It's an idea I'd need to talk to Starfleet Command about.
NEELIX: It must be important.
JANEWAY: It is. Now that we've established two way communication with Earth, it seems to me Starfleet could use a permanent ambassador in the Delta Quadrant. This ambassador would have to stay in frequent contact with Voyager.
NEELIX: Certainly.
JANEWAY: It would be difficult for me to run this ship without you, Neelix. But that might be a sacrifice I'd be willing to make for the greater good of Starfleet. Of course, the assignment would be entirely voluntary. You wouldn't be interested, would you?

[Outside the shuttlebay]

(Neelix steps out of the turbolift and walks down a long honour guard of officers and crew, that ends with the senior officers and Naomi.)
JANEWAY: Goodbye. And good luck, Ambassador.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
(Tuvok does a sort of one shoe shuffle.)
TUVOK: Live long, and prosper.
(Neelix resists the urge to hug him, and goes into the shuttlebay)

[Dexa's quarters]

(Neelix enters and puts down his bag. Brax rushes to hug him, then Dexa joins the embrace.)


S7 E24
Renaissance Man
Stardate: 54890.7
Original Airdate: 16 May 2001

[Delta Flyer]
(The EMH is singing Rigoletto con gusto.)
EMH: Questa o quella per me pari sono a quant'altre d'intorno mi vedo, del mio core l'impero non cedo meglio ad una che ad altre belta. La costoro avvenenza e qual dono di che ilfato ne infiora la vita. S'oggi questa mi torna gradita, forse un'altra, forse un'altra.
(During this vigorous recital, Janeway enters from the aft compartment with a face like thunder. He feels the vibes and stops.)
EMH: Captain. Computer, pause music. I didn't wake you, did I?
JANEWAY: That's all right, Doctor. Fifteen minutes of sleep is really all I need. Coffee, black. Maybe you should pay a little more attention to flying and a little less to singing.
EMH: As a hologram, I can handle a variety of tasks at once. In addition to piloting the Flyer, I'm writing a paper on the physiological stresses of long duration space flight, and taking holo-images of this Mutara class nebula.
JANEWAY: With a hologram on board, who needs a crew?
EMH: I'd never admit this to anyone else, but there was a time when I would have given anything to be flesh and blood. But I've come to realise that being a hologram is far superior.
JANEWAY: Really?
EMH: No offence. I'll always enjoy the company of organics. In fact, I'm delighted you were able to attend this medical symposium with me. It's been a pleasure spending time with you. Actually, I was hoping we might do this sort of thing more often.
(Shudder, beep.)
EMH: Hmm. We're passing through a subspace eddy.
JANEWAY: It could be the wake of another ship.
EMH: No, there's nothing on sensors. It's probably just the gravimetric shear from the nebula.
JANEWAY: Maybe I should take the controls.
EMH: Sit down and relax, Captain. You've got a hologram at the helm.

[Engineering]

TORRES: The plasma surges have to be coming from one of these relays. (to Vorik) Try realigning the deuterium manifolds.
(A relay shorts out.)
PARIS [OC]: Paris to Torres.
TORRES: Go ahead.
PARIS [OC]: Can you pull yourself away from engineering for a few minutes? I've got a shuttle down here with faulty deflector array.
TORRES: I'm a little busy right now.
PARIS [OC]: It's kind of urgent.

[Shuttlecraft]

(In the shuttlebay. Paris is wearing a very brightly patterned shirt, and unpacking a picnic.)
TORRES: What's this?
PARIS: Well, I thought you'd enjoy a romantic lunch under the glow of a red giant.
TORRES: Oh, you replicated potato salad.
PARIS: With extra paprika, just the way you like it.
TORRES: This is so sweet. But I can't.
PARIS: Sure you can. I've already cleared it with Chakotay.
TORRES: I told the captain I'd have the dilithium matrix recalibrated before she got back.
PARIS: You know, this might be our last chance to be alone for the next eighteen years.
(In between kisses.)
TORRES: I will make some time before the baby comes, I promise. Oh, I've got to get back.

[Bridge]

(Kim is in the Captain's chair and Ayala is at the helm.)
KIM: Report.
AYALA: There's some kind of pulse being directed at our transceiver array. It's coming from the Delta Flyer.
KIM: Hail them.
AYALA: No response.
KIM: Looks like they've encoded the pulse with a comm. signal.
(He puts the signal on the viewscreen.)
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Sorry about the image, Ensign. Our comm. system's been damaged. The only way I could send you a signal was through the main deflector.
KIM: Are you and the Doctor all right?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: We're fine. Tell Commander Chakotay to meet me in my ready room as soon as we've docked. Janeway out.

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: Harry tells me the Flyer took some damage.
JANEWAY: That's an understatement. We almost didn't make it back in one piece. They're called the R'Kaal. Their technology is decades ahead of ours. Transphasic warp drive, multi-spectral cloaking systems. They could destroy this ship before our sensors knew they were there.
CHAKOTAY: They sound like people we should avoid.
JANEWAY: I wish that were possible. They control thousands of parsecs from here to the edge of the Beta Quadrant. They're ecological extremists. They believe conventional warp engines damage subspace, so they've outlawed warp travel through their territory.
CHAKOTAY: Then we should reverse course and find a way around.
JANEWAY: That's the problem. We've already been in their space for three weeks without knowing it.
CHAKOTAY: You'd think they'd mark their borders a little more clearly.
JANEWAY: As punishment, their law demands that our ship be dismantled.
CHAKOTAY: Obviously we're not going to let that happen.
JANEWAY: I spent three hours explaining our situation to their Supreme Archon, a thoroughly unpleasant man. I convinced him to spare Voyager, but at a price. We're going to rendezvous with their armada and surrender our warp core at a class M planet where they've agreed to let us settle.
CHAKOTAY: Settle?
JANEWAY: I didn't make this decision lightly, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We have to bring the senior staff in on this. We can find a way to evade their ships, or adapt our sensors to their cloaking technology.
JANEWAY: We could try that, and we might make it past their armada, but we could lose a lot of people in the process. Maybe the entire ship.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, there's got to be another way.
JANEWAY: I'm tired, Chakotay. Tired of casualty reports, of continually risking my people on the slim chance that we'll make it home in one piece.
CHAKOTAY: We've found our way out of worse situations.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
CHAKOTAY: What am I supposed to tell the crew?
JANEWAY: For now, I'd like to keep this between us.
CHAKOTAY: It's not like you to keep your people in the dark
JANEWAY: I'll make an announcement when the time is right. Dismissed.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to interrupt, but I could use your input on a hypothetical scenario.
TORRES: Of course.
JANEWAY: If we were to eject the core, could it be towed safely at warp?
TORRES: In theory. But a tractor beam might destabilise the containment field. You'd be risking a breach.
JANEWAY: Could you compensate for that?
TORRES: You could configure the tractor emitters to generate a resonance pulse. That should stabilise the field.
JANEWAY: Can you make those modifications to the Delta Flyer's tractor emitters?
TORRES: I suppose.
JANEWAY: How long would it take?
TORRES: Er, a few hours.
JANEWAY: Get started.
TORRES: I thought this was a hypothetical scenario.
JANEWAY: We should be prepared, just in case.
TORRES: In case of what?
JANEWAY: Let me know as soon as you're finished.
(Janeway leaves.)
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TORRES: Have you got a minute?

[Bridge]

(Chakotay sits and talks quietly.)
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna tells me you ordered some modifications to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I misunderstood. I thought the plan was to hand over the core when we reached the planet. Are we taking it somewhere else?
(Janeway looks down to her right and whispers.)
JANEWAY: I heard you the first time.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: You've already made your concerns clear, Commander, but there's been a slight change of plans.
CHAKOTAY: Were you going to tell me? Kathryn, what's going on?
JANEWAY: I don't feel well. I've got a headache. I'm going to my quarters and I'd prefer not to be disturbed. You have the bridge.
(As she passes Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: Not now.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon, Captain?
JANEWAY: Carry on, Commander.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the Doctor.
EMH [OC]: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Report to Sickbay immediately.
(The EMH beams in.)
CHAKOTAY: Something wrong with the turbolifts?
EMH: You did say immediately. How can I help you?
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned about the Captain. She doesn't seem to be feeling well.
EMH: What's wrong?
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure. She went to her quarters with a headache.
EMH: I'll bring her an analgesic.
CHAKOTAY: I was wondering if this could be related to your encounter with the aliens.
EMH: You think they harmed her?
CHAKOTAY: You tell me. What did they do to her?
EMH: I'm not sure, exactly. The aliens took my programme offline as soon as they boarded the Flyer. The captain reactivated me a few hours later and told me she'd been interrogated. Naturally, I examined her to make sure she was all right.
CHAKOTAY: Did you find anything unusual?
EMH: I suppose I'm violating doctor-patient confidentiality by telling you this but, she was fine.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to give her a more thorough examination.
EMH: Gladly. But you know how she feels about physicals.
CHAKOTAY: You can be very persuasive, Doctor. Contact me as soon as you're done.
EMH: Aye, sir.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Anything interesting on sensors this morning?
SEVEN: Nothing extraordinary. A red giant and two G type stars, a Golorian trading vessel bearing one five six mark four.
CHAKOTAY: If there were a fleet of cloaked ships in the vicinity, could you devise a way to detect them?
SEVEN: A cloaked fleet would generate significant subspace distortions. Why do you ask?
KIM [OC]: Commander, we're receiving a transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM [OC]: I'm having trouble pinpointing it. Should I notify the captain? 
CHAKOTAY: No, she didn't want to be disturbed. Route the call here.
(A reptilian alien appears.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager.
LOTH [on screen]: This is Supreme Archon Loth of the R'Kaal Imperium. Why haven't you ejected your warp core as your captain agreed?
CHAKOTAY: We're en route to the planet you specified. We can't jettison the core until we get there.
LOTH [on screen]: If we don't receive the core within ten hours, my armada will destroy your ship. This is your only warning.
CHAKOTAY: Work with Harry. I want to know the source of that transmission.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Ah, Commander. You'll be relieved to know I've given the captain a clean bill of health.
CHAKOTAY: Did you run a neurological scan?
EMH: Mmm hmm. Her brain activity and cognitive functions are completely normal. As far as I can tell she's perfectly fit, physically and mentally.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Outside Janeway's quarters]

(Chakotay rings the doorbell, but there is no answer.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the captain. Computer, locate Captain Janeway.
(Janeway walks around the corner.)
JANEWAY: Computer, belay that. My quarters, now.

[Janeway's quarters]

JANEWAY: Really, Chakotay. Sending the Doctor to check up on me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned.
JANEWAY: Then why didn't you come to me directly? I thought we trusted each other.
CHAKOTAY: So did I. Something happened on that away mission that you're not telling me.
JANEWAY: I've told you everything you need to know.
CHAKOTAY: You've consulted me on every major decision over the last seven years, except this one. Why?
JANEWAY: There are some decisions a captain has to make on her own.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that, but every instinct tells me what you're doing is wrong. Don't you remember what happened on Lesik Prime?
JANEWAY: I don't see how that's relevant.
CHAKOTAY: I think you do. Fifteen years ago, you were the lieutenant who was kept in the dark. If you hadn't questioned your captain's orders, the entire away team would have been lost.
JANEWAY: This situation's entirely different.
CHAKOTAY: You never told me that story. I made it up. Chakotay to Tuvok.
JANEWAY: I've erected a dampening field around these quarters. I'm sorry, Commander.
(Janeway overpowers Chakotay and uses a hypospray to knock him out.)

[Morgue]

JANEWAY: Computer, secure the doors and establish a level five dampening field around the morgue.
(She opens one stasis chamber and beams Chakotay into it. Then she takes his comm. badge and closes the chamber.)

[Doctor's office]

JANEWAY: I can't do my job with the two of you constantly talking in my head.
(She puts her foot up on the desk to reveal the mobile emitter attached to the top of her boot. Then she morphs into the EMH.)
EMH: No. I'm not doing anything else until I speak with the captain. Fine. What's your encryption frequency?

[Overlooker's ship]

EMH [on monitor]: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: Doctor, listen to me. Under no circumstances are you to eject the warp core.
EMH [on monitor]: If I don't do what they ask, they'll kill you.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you a direct order. Stop what you're doing.
EMH [on monitor]: I'm sorry, Captain. I can't obey that order.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I want you to go to the bridge right now and alert Commander Tuvok.
(There are two members of the Heirarchy here, and they still remind me of Vogons. Thanks, Douglas Adams.)
ZET: Put her behind the forcefield.
(His companion obeys.)
ZET: We have another assignment for you. I've been going over the schematics of your vessel, and I'm intrigued by this bio-neural circuitry. I want you to bring us a series of these gel packs.
EMH [on monitor]: The gel packs are integrated into the ship's systems. I can't just remove them without someone noticing.
ZET: You've proven yourself to be very resourceful, Doctor. You'll find a way. Remember, we're monitoring your perceptual subroutines. We can see and hear everything.

[Doctor's office]

TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Chakotay.
ZET [on monitor]: You know what will happen to her if you alert your crew.
EMH: (croaky voice) Go ahead.

[Delta Flyer]

(In the shuttlebay.)
TUVOK: Are you all right, Commander?

[Sickbay]

EMH: Just a scratchy throat. The Doctor's treating me now.

[Delta Flyer]

TUVOK: Could you come to the Shuttlebay when you're finished?

[Sickbay]

EMH: I'll be right there. Chakotay out. Computer, access the holodeck database and locate Commander Chakotay's holographic template. Download the physical parameters into my programme.
(He morphs himself into Chakotay and puts the comm. badge on.)

[Delta Flyer]

EMH-CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me?
TUVOK: I've completed the diagnostic as you requested. The Flyer's comm. system is functioning normally.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You find that unusual?
TUVOK: The Captain did report that it was damaged

[Overlooker's ship]

TUVOK [OC]: During the attack by the R'Kaal.
EMH-CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'll have a talk with her. Did you find anything else out of the ordinary?
TUVOK [OC]: No.
ZET: Get out of there before you arouse suspicion.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH-CHAKOTAY: I'll be on the bridge if you need me.

[Overlooker's ship]

NAR: You're doing a wonderful job, Doctor. I'm just giving him a little encouragement.
ZET: That's why I'm in command.
NAR: If all goes well, we should have the warp core in less than six hours. He's making excellent progress.
JANEWAY: That's exactly what he wants you to believe.
ZET: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: Did you really think you could outsmart a hologram?
NAR: Everything appears to be normal.
JANEWAY: How do you know you're not looking at a holographic projection? The Doctor isn't just a physician. His Emergency Command subroutines contain thousands of tactical scenarios. I wouldn't be surprised if Voyager was already on its way here. You do have an option. Leave me behind in an escape pod and I'll forget any of this ever happened.
NAR: Maybe we should let her go.
ZET: Are you delusional? It took months to plan this. We've already found a buyer for the warp core. Now you want to abandon everything?
NAR: It's better than being sent to a rehabilitation centre.
ZET: We made our choice when we stole this vessel. I am not going back to the Hierarchy, and neither are you. She's just trying to trick you. A month from now, we'll be soaking in the mud baths of Eblar Prime. Trust me.

[Janeway's quarters]

EMH: (as Janeway) Janeway to Torres.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here.
EMH:(as Janeway) I'm having a little trouble with my replicator again. Can you take a look at it?

[Engineering]

TORRES: I'm still working on those modifications you asked for. I'll send somebody else.

[Janeway's quarters]

EMH: (as Janeway)I'd consider it a personal favour if you'd do it yourself, Lieutenant.
TORRES [OC]: I'll be there in five minutes.
EMH: (as Janeway)Thank you. Janeway out. (own voice) Computer, access Lieutenant Torres' holographic template and download the physical parameters into my programme.
(He makes the changes then realises something is missing when he looks in the mirror.)
EMH-TORRES: Computer, access medical file Torres Three and update her holographic template.
(The baby bump appears. S/he waits until Torres has left Engineering.)

[Engineering] 

VORIK: Did you forget something, Lieutenant?
EMH-TORRES: I did, actually. Where do we keep the spare gel packs?
VORIK: Locker gamma five.
EMH-TORRES: Of course. Gamma five.
VORIK: On the upper level.
EMH-TORRES: I know where it is, Ensign.
(S/he gets on the lift.)

[Engineering upper level]

(Where Paris is attempting the picnic again as s/he gets the gel packs.)
PARIS: You left me no choice.
EMH-TORRES: Lieutenant.
PARIS: Oh? Are we calling each other by our rank now?
EMH-TORRES: Er, you startled me.
PARIS: Oh, sorry. Well, I thought since you didn't have time for lunch under the stars, maybe you'd settle for the glow of the warp core.
EMH-TORRES: How thoughtful, but I'm not hungry.
PARIS: Well, I'm sure the baby is famished.
(He unveils a tray of Southern Fried Chicken.)
EMH-TORRES: A pregnant woman shouldn't eat this kind of food. Do you want to give me an arterial occlusion?
PARIS: One drumstick isn't going to kill you. Besides, I won't tell the Doctor if you won't.
EMH-TORRES: You know, this all looks so delicious. Why don't we save it for a romantic dinner this evening?
PARIS: All right, nineteen hours. But if you're not there, I'm sending security after you.
EMH-TORRES: I'll be there. Sweetheart.
PARIS: Sweetheart? Well, aren't you getting affectionate in your third trimester.
(Paris kisses her/him.)
PARIS: I'll see you later.
(Paris leaves. EMH-Torres closes the case containing the gel-packs, then the comm badge on his wrist activates.)
KIM [OC]: Kim to Chakotay. Can you come to Astrometrics?
EMH-TORRES: (Chakotay's voice) Harry, I'll be right there. Chakotay out.

[Astrometrics lab]

(The image of the Supreme Archon Loth is on the screen.)
KIM: The transmission was encoded with a false subspace signature.
SEVEN: The signal didn't originate on another vessel. It came from inside Voyager.
KIM: We traced it to holodeck two.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Do you know who sent it?
KIM: I'm on my way to check the access logs.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: I'll go with you.

[Holodeck]

KIM: Whoever sent this transmission knew how to cover his tracks. The holodeck logs have been erased.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Doesn't look like we'll get any answers here.
KIM: I might be able to find some residual phototonic displacement. There we go. I think I can clarify the image with a recursive algorithm.
(Loth solidifies.)
KIM: Our alien's a hologram. The question is, who programmed him?
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Good work, Ensign. I'll take it from here.
KIM: Wait a minute. I'm picking up two holographic signatures. It looks like a second image was superimposed over an existing template. I'll see if I can isolate the first image.
(The EMH steps behind Kim and takes a hypo from his boot. The holographic image changes to the EMH, so EMH-Chakotay uses the hypo on Kim. He then stores Kim in the morgue and adds his comm. badge to the growing collection in his office. The EMH leans back and begins a playback of the Blue Danube Waltz before tapping some controls.)

[Overlooker's ship]

(All this is visible on the screen.)
ZET: Doctor, what are you doing?
EMH [OC]: If you don't mind

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I've had a stressful day.
(Tuvok enters Sickbay. The EMH stops the music.)

[Overlooker's ship]

EMH [OC]: I'm extremely busy, Commander.
TUVOK [on monitor]: This will only take a moment. I've been reviewing the communication logs. There's a discrepancy I was hoping you could explain.

[Doctor's office]

TUVOK: At the precise moment the Flyer transmitted a deflector pulse, you apparently accessed Voyager's holographic database.
EMH: I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about. 

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: Your access code was used to download the captain's physical parameters.
EMH: Exactly what are you insinuating, Commander?
TUVOK: Perhaps we should have a word with the captain.
EMH: Fine. (The EMH attempts to inject Tuvok, but he is stopped. Tuvok draws his phaser.)
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
COMPUTER: EMH protocols are offline.
TUVOK: Security to Sickbay. Remain where you are.
EMH: You haven't forgotten I'm a hologram, have you?
(Tuvok fires his phaser at a wall emitter. The EMH flickers.)
TUVOK:  If necessary, I'll disable all of your holo-emitters.
(The EMH leaps through the window into his office.)

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Computer, transfer the EMH to the mobile emitter.
(He runs out through the Medical lab.)
TUVOK: All hands, Red Alert. Security teams, apprehend the Doctor.

[Outside Holodeck]

(The EMH runs inside and the doors close.)
TUVOK: Computer, open the holodeck doors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Access to the holodeck has been restricted.
TUVOK: Security override, Tuvok sigma four.

[Holodeck]

(Dozens of EMH's turn to face Tuvok.)
TUVOK: Computer, end programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls are offline.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Engineering. Shut down power

[Engineering]

TUVOK [OC]: To Holodeck two.
TORRES: It looks like the Doctor's rerouted the power relays. It'll take a minute to bypass them.

[Holodeck]

TUVOK: Doctor, I've reconfigured my phaser to disrupt your holo-matrix. Surrender yourself now.
(The EMH is crawling along a Jefferies tube. All the EMH's in the holodeck vanish.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: Can you locate the Doctor on the internal sensors?
PARIS: I'm not reading him. He must've masked his signature somehow.
TUVOK [OC]: Try scanning for the polydeutonic alloy in his emitter. Shut down all

[Holodeck]

TUVOK: Turbolifts and transporters.
PARIS [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Engineering]

EMH-CHAKOTAY: Get your people out of here. The core's about to breach.
TORRES: I'm not detecting an overload.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You're getting false readings. The Doctor's reprogrammed your sensors.
TORRES: All right, everybody out. Now! Move it!
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You too, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I might be able to stabilise the containment field.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You're not putting your baby in danger. Go!
TORRES: You'd better be right behind me.
PARIS: Paris to Torres. I'm picking up the Doctor's emitter in your section.
TORRES: Where?
PARIS: Right next to the warp core.
(EMH-Chakotay traps Torres behind a forcefield.)
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Computer, activate Emergency Command Hologram.
COMPUTER: All command codes have been transferred to the ECH.
EMH: Prepare to eject the warp core. Authorization ECH omega four two.
TORRES: Doctor, don't do this.
COMPUTER: Warp ejection system enabled.
EMH: Computer, eject the core.
(The warp core falls out of Voyager.)
EMH: Computer, lock on to my mobile emitter and transport me to the Delta Flyer.
COMPUTER: Transporters are offline.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Tuvok, we just lost main power

[Corridor]

PARIS [OC]: And internal sensors are down.
TUVOK: The Doctor has entered Jefferies tube one one alpha. Send a security team to the shuttlebay.
(Torres gets out of a Jefferies tube and comes running around the corner.)
TUVOK: Lieutenant?
EMH-TORRES: I think the Doctor's heading for the escape pods.
(Tuvok closes his tricorder and draws his phaser.)
EMH-TORRES: You wouldn't shoot a pregnant woman, would you?
TUVOK: Come with me, Doctor.
(EMH-Torres runs up the wall, along  the ceiling over Tuvok, then stuns him.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Tuvok, someone's launching the Flyer.

[Corridor]

PARIS [OC]: Tuvok!
(In space, the EMH grabs the warp core with the Delta Flyer's tractor beam.)

[Overlooker's ship]

(Nar is trying to repair something, and gets an electric shock. He drops his tool.)
NAR: Ow! 
JANEWAY: You might try disconnecting the phase discriminator. (He removes the top of the object to reveal a small flashing light.)
NAR: Ha! I've rebuilt dozens of these units, but I've never seen this configuration before. Do you know how I can stabilise the ion flow?
(Janeway gestures to him to bring it closer.)
JANEWAY: That looks like the charge inverter.
(He presses the indicated button, and the object lights up properly.)
NAR: Thank you.
JANEWAY: You're welcome. Your ship must need a lot of replacement parts.
NAR: Oh, those aren't for this ship. I've been collecting and repairing spare components for years. This is from an old impulse drive. Would you believe I found it sitting in a waste depository? I'll be able to find a buyer now that it's working.
JANEWAY: These parts could be worth a small fortune.
NAR: That's exactly what I think. I'm going to use my quarter of the profits to establish an outpost specialising in obsolete engine components. I'm certain there's a demand for them.
JANEWAY: My Chief Engineer is always looking for spare parts. She might be interested in acquiring your entire inventory.
ZET: Captain. Tut, tut, tut. You're not trying to take advantage of my subordinate, are you? No one's ever going to buy this junk. It's almost as useless as you. There's a ship approaching.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: This is the Delta Flyer. I've got the warp core

[Overlooker's ship]

EMH [OC]: But you're not getting it until you release the captain.
(Zet fires at the Flyer.)

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: Are you insane? You almost destabilised the core. Both of our ships would've been destroyed!

[Overlooker's ship]

ZET: This isn't a negotiation. Release your tractor beam, now.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: All right.
(The tractor beam is turned off, and the warp core vanishes.)
NAR: It's in the cargo hold.
ZET: Lower your shields and we'll beam your captain to you.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: Ready.

[Overlooker's ship]

(Instead, the EMH is beamed into the cell with Janeway.)
EMH: We had an agreement!
ZET: To spare your captain. As you can see, she's still alive.
JANEWAY: Let the Doctor go. I'm the more valuable hostage.
ZET: Actually, you're not. We'll leave you in the Vinry system. The inhabitants are mostly harmless. (Dpuglas Adams again!) The Doctor will be working for us now.
EMH: I'll do no such thing.
ZET: I'm sure you'll feel differently after I make a few adjustments to your programme.
NAR: I had no idea he was going to do this. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I hope you realise you've stranded Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
EMH: What did you expect me to do, let them kill you?
JANEWAY: I expected you to follow my orders.
EMH: You might as well have been ordering me to put a phaser to your head. Voyager can survive without a warp core, but not without a captain.
JANEWAY: Now it doesn't have either.

Chief Tactical Officer's log, stardate 54890.7. With internal sensors offline, I've had to order a section by section search for our missing crew members. Until main power is restored, Voyager remains immobilised and defenceless.

[Morgue]

(The search finally reaches the morgue, where Kim and Chakotay are in the stasis chambers.)
PARIS: They're just unconscious. Paris to Tuvok. I found them.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: It is logical to assume the Captain never returned from the away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Do you have any idea where the Flyer is?
TUVOK: The Doctor masked his ion trail.
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]

TORRES: We're ready to restart the impulse reactors.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged.
(The lights come on and the Blue Danube waltz begins to play, slightly wrong.)

[Corridor]

TUVOK: It's playing on every comm. channel on the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, pause music.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
CHAKOTAY: Didn't the Doctor play this at his recital last month?
TUVOK: Yes. And as I recall, he performed the piece flawlessly.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the recording was damaged by the power loss.
TUVOK: Or perhaps the Doctor altered the music deliberately.
CHAKOTAY: Why would he do that?

[Briefing room]

SEVEN: I performed a Fourier analysis on the recording. The harmonics have been modified.
(Frequency analysis 71)
KIM: It could be a comm. frequency.
SEVEN: Unlikely. There's no carrier wave.
PARIS: I could be wrong but, it looks like a warp signature.
KIM: The power utilisation curve would be about right.
CHAKOTAY: Try scanning for it.
(Long range scan 328)
SEVEN: I'm detecting a matching signature. Distance, six point seven light years.
TUVOK: We can't follow them at impulse.
CHAKOTAY: You and Tom take a shuttle.

[Overlooker's ship]

(Janeway taps at the mobile emitter.)
EMH: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: If I can amplify your matrix, I might be able to disrupt the forcefield.
EMH: I'm sorry I put us in this position, Captain.
JANEWAY: You said you wanted us to spend more time together.
EMH: This isn't what I had in mind. Maybe, if we get back to the ship, we could try socialising a little more.
JANEWAY: This really isn't the place to be talking about this. Besides, I don't do a lot of socialising.
EMH: You have meals with Commander Chakotay, and you play Velocity with Seven.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to discuss this later.
(Nar lowers the forcefield.)
NAR: I need to upload your first assignment.
(The EMH steps out and Nar beams the programme into the mobile emitter.)
EMH: You want me to infiltrate the Hierarchy's surveillance complex?
ZET: The data stored there is worth a hundred warp cores.
EMH: How do you expect me to get past the security perimeter?
ZET: I'm glad you asked.
(Nar turns the EMH into an Overlooker.)
EMH-OVERLOOKER: I trust this won't be permanent.
NAR: I've given you the rank of a Class One Overseer. You'll be able to walk into Central Command without anyone noticing. I've also uploaded several other holographic templates you might find useful.
(The EMH flickers.)
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
NAR: I'm not certain.
ZET: The compression algorithms are breaking down.
NAR: I told you his programme couldn't handle that much data.
(The EMH's appearance flickers and changes rapidly.)
EMH-TORRES-OVERLOOKER: What have you done to me?

[Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: I'm detecting a human lifesign aboard. And a holographic signature.
TUVOK: The vessel's weapons are polaron-based, and they have auto-regenerative shielding.
PARIS: We still have the element of surprise.

[Overlooker's ship]

JANEWAY: If you don't get him back to Voyager his matrix will be permanently damaged.
EMH-ALIEN: Please do something.
NAR: He won't be any use to us if he decompiles.
(The shuttlecraft attacks as Paris beams into the Flyer. He starts to power it up.)
NAR: Someone's boarded the Delta Flyer. They're moving away.
ZET: Fire at both vessels.

[Shuttlecraft]

TUVOK: Now, Mister Paris.
(Both ships attack Zet's)

[Overlooker's ship]

(The EMH-Alien is with Janeway behind the forcefield.)
NAR: The shield generator isn't going to last. If we give them what they want, maybe they'll leave.
ZET: Prepare to jettison their warp core.
NAR: What are you doing?
ZET: Arming a torpedo. If we detonate their core the blast wave should give us enough time to escape.
NAR: That would kill them.
(A pair of hits from Starfleet weapons make the forcefield drop. Janeway dashes for a control panel.)
EMH-ALIEN: Captain, get down!
(She ducks, and Zar's phaser fire goes over her head. The EMH-Alien disarms him.)  

[Shuttlecraft]

(The warp core materialises in space.)
TUVOK: Lieutenant, lock a tractor beam onto the core and get it back to Voyager.
PARIS [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Overlooker's ship]

(A console explodes and Janeway is knocked out. The EMH returns to his usual matrix and attacks Zet.)
ZET: Nar, get this hologram off me.
(Nar knocks Zet out with the mended piece of impulse drive.)
NAR: Guess this wasn't so useless after all.
(He helps Janeway up.)
NAR: Are you still interested in acquiring my inventory?

[Holodeck]

(The shuttlecraft returns to Voyager. Tuvok, the glitching EMH and Janeway are beamed into the holodeck.)
TORRES: Computer, transfer the EMH back into the holodeck buffer.
JANEWAY: Can you stabilise his matrix?
SEVEN: Not until we purge the excess subroutines.
TORRES: There's more than a thousand teraquads of new data in here.
PARIS: How is he?
JANEWAY: We're not sure yet.
EMH: Captain, if I don't survive, I need you to do something for me.
JANEWAY: You're going to be all right.
EMH: If I'm not, when you reach Earth I want you to donate my emitter to the Daystrom Institute. They may be able to replicate it someday so that other holograms can know the freedom I've enjoyed. I've had something on my conscience for a long time. After I was first activated, I kept a record of what I considered to be your most questionable command decisions. It's in my personal database. I hope you'll delete the file without reading it. Mister Tuvok, I violated the most sacred trust between a physician and his patient. I told Mister Neelix about the cutaneous eruption you developed on your. That was indiscreet. I hope you can forgive me. Ensign, at your recital last month, I told Lieutenant Torres that your saxophone playing reminded me of a wounded targ. I should've put it more delicately. I'm sorry. Seven.
SEVEN: You should remain still.
EMH: You have no idea how difficult it's been, hiding my true feelings all these years, averting my eyes during your regular maintenance exams.
(He goes down on his knees in front of her.)
EMH: I know you could never have the same feelings for me but I want you to know the truth. I love you, Seven.
SEVEN: Your cognitive algorithms are malfunctioning.
EMH: Goodbye, my friends. Speak well of me.
(The EMH disappears.)
JANEWAY: Is he
TORRES: No, I've got him.
(The EMH reappears.)
EMH: What happened?
TORRES: I deleted the extraneous subroutines.
EMH: I'm not going to decompile?
JANEWAY: You'll probably outlive us all.
(Janeway hands him the mobile emitter.)
PARIS: Doc, anything else you'd like to confess?

Captain's log, stardate 54912.4. Lieutenant Torres has restored our warp drive in less than a week. The Doctor's dignity, however, might take a little longer. He hasn't left Sickbay once since he returned to the ship.

[Medical lab]

EMH: Captain, do you, do you need medical attention?
JANEWAY: No. You've been keeping to yourself lately. Your friends are worried about you.
EMH: After my deathbed confession, I wasn't sure I had any friends left. I overstepped my bounds in documenting your command decisions. It happened a long time ago, before I considered myself to be a part of your crew.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm not here to make you grovel. I'm here to punish you for your insubordinate behaviour.
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: You're hereby denied the use of your mobile emitter for six days. Since you haven't left Sickbay for a week, we'll call it time served.
(She puts the emitter on his sleeve.)
EMH: I appreciate the gesture, Captain, but I've got a lot of work to catch up on.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to hear that. I was hoping you might be free for a cup of coffee on the holodeck. I know a little sidewalk café in Buenos Aires. You said you wanted us to socialise more.
EMH: I suppose Mister Paris can finish this.
JANEWAY: Now, when you're on the holodeck with the captain, there are two rules you have to follow.
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: First, leave your rank at the door.
EMH: Not a problem. The second?
JANEWAY: No opera.


S7 E25
Endgame
Stardate: 54973.4
Original Airdate: 23 May 2001
dialogue provided by 'Harry Kim' of the Observation Lounge. With many thanks.

[2404 - San Francisco - Admiral Janeway's Apartment - night]
(Voyager swoops over San Francisco and over the Golden Gate Bridge amid a big firework display and in front of a large crowd.)
NEWSREADER [OC]: These should be familiar images to everyone who remembers the USS Voyager's triumphant return to Earth after twenty three years in the Delta Quadrant. Voyager captivated the hearts and minds of people throughout the Federation, so it seems fitting that on this, the tenth anniversary of their return, we take a moment to recall the sacrifices made by the crew. Corruption charges were brought today against a Ferengi
JANEWAY: Computer, end display.
(Janeway is silver-haired now. She gazes out of her window.)

[Admiral Janeway's Apartment - party]

(A Bolian waiter is serving drinks. People of all ages are mixing and greeting. A little girl taps the arm of a man with a lot of grey in his hair.)
KIM: Hello.
SABRINA: What's your name?
KIM: Harry. What's yours?
SABRINA: Sabrina.
KIM: Naomi's daughter?
SABRINA: Ah ha.
KIM: You've gotten so big.
SABRINA: I don't remember you.
KIM: I haven't come to one of these reunions in four years.
SABRINA: Why?
KIM: I've been on a deep space assignment.
SABRINA: For four years?
KIM: Compared to how long I was on Voyager, it seemed like a long weekend. Can you find your mother for me?
SABRINA: Ah ha.
KIM: I'd like to say hi.
(Janeway lifts her arm to avoid spilling a drink as Sabrina runs off.)
JANEWAY: Oops. Here you are, Captain.
KIM: Thank you, Admiral. I haven't seen her since she was a baby.
JANEWAY: It's amazing how fast you've all grown.
KIM: How's Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Not well.
KIM: I thought maybe I'd go see him tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Oh, that would be nice.
KIM: I'm sorry I missed the funeral. I should have been there.
JANEWAY: You were on a mission. Everyone understood. It's so good to see you, Harry.
(The EMH enters with a young lovely on his arm.)
PARIS: Doc!
(Paris is going bald.)
EMH: Mister Paris. Voyager's pilot, medic, and occasional thorn in my side. Where have you been hiding yourself?
PARIS: I've been busy.
EMH: New holonovel?
PARIS: I'll make sure to get your input before I send it off to my publisher. Aren't you going to introduce me to your date?
EMH: Mister Paris meet Lana, my blushing bride.
PARIS: You're married?
LANA: Tomorrow is our two week anniversary.
PARIS: Well, congratulations. My invitation must have gotten lost in subspace..
EMH: Oh, you should be flattered. We took a page from your book and eloped.
LANA: Joe has a real flair for romantic gestures.
PARIS: Joe?
EMH: I decided I couldn't get married without a name.
PARIS: It took you thirty three years to come up with Joe?
EMH: It was Lana's grandfather's name.
PARIS: Oh. Oh, so you're not a
LANA: A hologram? No.
EMH: Frankly, Mister Paris, I'm surprised you'd even ask. I thought we were beyond those sorts of distinctions.
PARIS: Are you kidding? I think it's great. I'm in a mixed marriage myself, remember?
EMH: Speaking of which, where is that wife of yours?
(She is talking to Janeway.)
TORRES: The High Council had a lot of questions.
JANEWAY: What did you tell them?
TORRES: The truth, with a Klingon twist. I told them that my beloved former captain, who had saved my life many times in glorious battle, would be honoured to submit Korath's House for consideration.
JANEWAY: Do you think it will work?
TORRES: I'm just the Federation liaison, but I'd like to think I have some influence. You still haven't told me why you're trying to help Korath.
JANEWAY: He's an old friend.
TORRES: Would this old friend have anything to do with the mission that you sent my daughter on?
JANEWAY: Sorry, B'Elanna, but you know I can't talk about that.
TORRES: Couldn't you at least have waited until after the reunion? She really wanted to be here.
JANEWAY: She'll be home soon, I promise.
(The sound of spoon on champagne flute.)
BARCLAY: May I have everyone's attention, please. Ten years ago tonight, this crew returned home from the longest away mission in Starfleet's history. Twenty three years together made you a family, one I'm proud to have been adopted by. Let's raise our glasses to the journey.
ALL: To the journey.
JANEWAY: And to those who aren't here to celebrate it with us.

[Starfleet classroom]

BARCLAY: Ladies and gentlemen, meet the Borg.
(A hologram of a drone appears.)
BARCLAY: Over the course of this term, you're going to become intimately familiar with the Collective. You'll learn about the assimilation process, the Borg hierarchy, and the psychology of the hive mind. And when it comes to your performance in this class, my expectations are going to be no different than the Borg Queen herself. Perfection. This semester, we are very fortunate to have a special guest lecturer. The woman who literally wrote the book on the Borg. Admiral Kathryn Janeway.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Commander. I'm glad to be here. A question already, cadet?
CADET: I suppose it could wait until after class, Admiral.
JANEWAY: As they say in the Temporal Mechanics Department, there's no time like the present.
CADET: In the year 2377, you aided the Borg resistance movement known as Unimatrix Zero.
BARCLAY: Sounds like someone's been reading ahead.
JANEWAY: I thought you had a question, Cadet.
CADET: Yes, ma'am. When you informed the Queen that you were going to liberate thousands of her drones, could you describe the look on her face?
FEMALE CADET: Admiral? Some of us were talking before class and we were curious. How extensive was Seven of Nine's involvement with Unimatrix Zero?
JANEWAY: I'd, er, prefer not to discuss Seven of Nine.
FEMALE CADET: Yes, ma'am. Sorry.
(An aide enters and whispers in Janeway's ear.)
JANEWAY: Excuse me.
(Janeway and her aide leave.)
BARCLAY: Okay, er, who can tell me a little about nanotechnology?

[Admiral Janeway's office]

MIRAL [on monitor]: I'm sorry to pull you out of class, Admiral.
JANEWAY: Did you see it?
MIRAL [on monitor]: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And?
MIRAL [on monitor]: It works.
JANEWAY: Korath has agreed to the exchange?
MIRAL [on monitor]: Yes.
JANEWAY: But?
MIRAL [on monitor]: He's insisting on handing it over to you personally.
JANEWAY: I'll be there as soon as I can. Good work, Ensign Paris.

[Starfleet Medical - Tuvok's room]

(Candles and crumpled pieces of paper scattered all over the floor. The meditation lamp is also being used to provide illumination for his writings. Tuvok is left-handed.)
JANEWAY: Hello, Tuvok.
TUVOK: The light.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sorry.
(Janeway steps inside and the door closes. She is holding something fastened with a white ribbon.)
TUVOK: I know you.
JANEWAY: That's right. I'm your friend, Kathryn Janeway, remember?
TUVOK: You're an impostor.
JANEWAY: No, Tuvok. It's me.
TUVOK: Admiral Janeway visits on Sunday. Today is Thursday. Logic dictates that you are not who you claim to be.
JANEWAY: How are you?
TUVOK: I am close to completing my work.
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it.
TUVOK: It is difficult with so many interruptions.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. Would you like me to leave?
TUVOK: You may stay.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, there's something I need to tell you. It's very important. I'm going away and I may not see you again. Commander Barclay and the Doctor will continue to visit. They'll bring you anything you need.
TUVOK: The Doctor comes on Wednesdays. Commander Barclay's visits are erratic.
(He returns to his writings. Janeway strokes his head then kisses it, and leaves her present - a picture of the senior staff - on his dresser. It is the Season 5 publicity image.)
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Tuvok.

[Admiral Janeway's apartment]

(Janeway opens the door to her visitor.)
JANEWAY: You must be the only Doctor who still makes house calls.
EMH: What are your symptoms?
JANEWAY: I'm perfectly fine.
EMH: For thirty three years you fought me every time you were due for a physical. Now you ask me to give you one ahead of schedule?
JANEWAY: I'm taking a trip. I just wanted to get our appointment out of the way before I left.
EMH: That's all?
JANEWAY: That's all.
EMH: Hmm. The good news is you're as healthy as you were the first day I examined you.
JANEWAY: Well, now that's out of the way, have a seat. We didn't get to talk much at the party.
EMH: No, I don't suppose we did.
JANEWAY: So, how's married life?
EMH: Wonderful. You should try it.
JANEWAY: Oh, I think it's a little late for that. Marriage is for the young, like your wife.
EMH: I can only hope she ages as gracefully as you have. I, of course, will be the same handsome hologram twenty years from now as I am today.
JANEWAY: I've been meaning to ask you. Are you familiar with a drug called Chronexaline?
EMH: We've been testing it at Starfleet Medical to determine if it can protect biomatter from tachyon radiation.
JANEWAY: And?
EMH: It's very promising. Why do you ask?
JANEWAY: I need two thousand milligrams by tomorrow afternoon.
EMH: Why?
JANEWAY: That's classified. Will you get it for me?
EMH: Of course, Admiral. You'll have it by oh nine hundred.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Starfleet Communications]

COMPUTER: Download complete.
BARCLAY: This should be everything you need.
JANEWAY: The shuttle?
BARCLAY: Waiting for you at the Oakland shipyard. I wish you'd let me come with you.
JANEWAY: Sorry, Reg, but this is my mission. Besides, if you leave there won't anyone to teach those eager young cadets about the Borg.
BARCLAY: Oh. I made you some fresh tea for the trip. Not that replicated stuff.
JANEWAY: Thank you, for everything. I wouldn't have been able to do this without you.
BARCLAY: Oh, don't remind me.

[Hillside - Chakotay's grave]

JANEWAY: Any final words of advice for your old captain? Wait, don't tell me. I'm being impulsive. I haven't considered all the consequences. It's too risky. Thanks for the input, but I've got to do what I think is right.
(She brushes the leaves off the simple inscription. Chakotay, 2329 - 2394)
JANEWAY: I know it wasn't easy living all these years without her, Chakotay. But when I'm through, things might be better for all of us. Trust me.

[2378 - USS Voyager - Torres-Paris' Quarters]

TORRES: Tom. Tom?
PARIS: I'm sleeping.
TORRES: It's time.
PARIS: For what?
TORRES: I'll give you one guess.
PARIS: Paris to
(Paris realises he doesn't have his comm. badge on. He grabs it from the window ledge behind the bed.)
PARIS: Paris to Sickbay, it's time.
EMH [OC]: Relax, Mister Paris. Can she stand?
(Torres is putting on a coat.)
PARIS: Affirmative.
EMH [OC]: Then I suggest you report to Sickbay.
(Paris heads for the door.)
PARIS: What about B'Elanna?
EMH [OC]: Her, too.
PARIS: Right, of course. Maybe we should take the transporter. Hey, wait for me!

[Sickbay]

EMH: Hmm.
PARIS: What do you mean by hmm?
EMH: You're going to have a very healthy baby, but not tonight.
TORRES: Tell me you're joking.
EMH: You're experiencing false labour, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Again?
EMH: As I explained the last time, it's a common occurrence, especially among Klingons.
TORRES: I want this thing out of me now.
EMH: Misdirected rage. Another common occurrence among Klingons.
PARIS: Can't you induce?
EMH: I wouldn't recommend it
PARIS: If this keeps happening, we'll never get any sleep.
EMH: You think it's bad now?

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: When?
CHAKOTAY: Oh four hundred.
JANEWAY: How many false alarms does that make?
CHAKOTAY: Three that we know of.
JANEWAY: That baby is as stubborn as her mother.
CHAKOTAY: Harry's starting a pool to see who can guess the actual date and time of birth.
JANEWAY: Tell him to put me down for next Friday, twenty three hundred hours. Anything else?
CHAKOTAY: Crewman Chell's asked about taking over in the mess hall full time.
JANEWAY: Neelix left some pretty big pots and pans to fill. Does Mister Chell feel he's up to the challenge?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently so. He's prepared a sample menu.
JANEWAY: Plasma leek soup? Chicken warp core don bleu?
CHAKOTAY: If his cooking's as bad as his puns, we're in trouble.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't know. I wouldn't mind giving his Red Alert chili a try. Feel like having lunch?
CHAKOTAY: I'd love to, but I've already made plans. Rain check?
JANEWAY: Absolutely.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven is kneeling on a red and white checkered table cloth and unpacking a picnic hamper.)
CHAKOTAY: What's all this?
SEVEN: A picnic. According to my research, this is an appropriate third date.
CHAKOTAY: You didn't have to go to this much trouble.
SEVEN: If this makes you uncomfortable I could prepare a less elaborate meal.
CHAKOTAY: No, don't change a thing. This is perfection.

[Mess hall]

(Icheb is trying his hand at Kal-toh. Kim coughs just before he makes a move. Icheb moves the rod to another place and Kim nods slightly.)
TUVOK: In the interest of fair play, I should inform you that Mister Kim has never defeated me at Kal-toh.
(Icheb places the rod at his first chosen place. The shape does not change.)
KIM: You should've listened to me.
(Tuvok's rod changes the shape.)
TUVOK: Kal-toh is as much a game of patience as it is of logic. An experienced player will sometimes take several hours to decide his next move, and in some cases even days may be necessary to
(Icheb places a rod.)
ICHEB: Kal-toh.
KIM: You beat him.
TUVOK: Congratulations.
ICHEB: I'm sure it was just beginner's luck, sir. I'd offer you a rematch, but I'm due in Astrometrics.
TUVOK Another time, perhaps.
(Icheb leaves. Kim takes his place opposite Tuvok.)
KIM: He may have to go, but I'm free and feeling lucky.
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me, Ensign.
(Tuvok leaves the table.)
KIM: It's just a game, Tuvok.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Icheb's an exceptionally bright young man. Did it occur to you that he might simply be a better player?
TUVOK: My loss was the result of another lapse in concentration.
EMH: I am detecting lower neuropeptide levels.
TUVOK: As I suspected. My condition is deteriorating.
EMH: It's a minor change. We knew it would happen. I simply have to increase your medication.
TUVOK: Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Commander. I understand your desire for privacy, but maybe it's time we informed the captain.
TUVOK: I will inform her if and when the disorder begins to affect the performance of my duties.
EMH: Of course.

[Astrometrics lab]

(A game of remote Kadis-kot is in progress.)
SEVEN: Your move.
NEELIX [on screen] Green, grid twelve ten.
SEVEN: Red, grid three thirteen.
NEELIX [on screen]: Tricky.
SEVEN: How's Brax?
NEELIX [on screen]: Wonderful. Thanks for asking. I know I can never replace his father, but
SEVEN: I have no doubt the boy looks up to you.
NEELIX [on screen]: Orange, grid ten twelve. I haven't told anyone, but I'm thinking of asking Dexa to marry me.
SEVEN: She'd be wise to accept.
NEELIX [on screen]: That's enough of my love life. How about yours?
SEVEN: I don't have a love life.
NEELIX [on screen]: Oh? What about your relationship with Commander Chakotay?
SEVEN: It's your turn.
NEELIX [on screen]: Actually, it's yours. At least tell me how he liked the picnic.
SEVEN: It was an enjoyable activity for both of us. Thank you for suggesting it.
NEELIX [on screen]: Any time. What is it?
SEVEN: Long range sensors are detecting extremely high neutrino emissions accompanied by an intermittent graviton flux approximately three light years away.
NEELIX [on screen]: A wormhole?
SEVEN: I'm not sure. I'll need to conduct more scans.
NEELIX [on screen]: We can finish our game tomorrow.
SEVEN: I'll contact you at the usual time.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: The emissions are occurring at the centre of the nebula. There appear to be hundreds of distinct sources.
KIM: Which could translate to hundreds of wormholes.
SEVEN: The radiation is interfering with our sensors, but if Ensign Kim's enthusiasm turns out to be justified, it would be the most concentrated occurrence of wormholes ever recorded.
JANEWAY: Any idea where they lead?
KIM: Not yet, but if just one of them leads to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Who knows, Harry? It might take us right into your parents' living room.
JANEWAY: Alter course, Mister Paris. Ensign, when you speak to your mother, tell her we may need her to move the sofa.

[2404 - Starfleet Medical - Tuvok's room]

TUVOK: 71 53 53 31 71 53 53 31 71 53.
PHYSICIAN: Sorry if I pulled you away from something important, sir, but he won't let anyone near him and I thought you might
EMH: You did the right thing. His condition's never been associated with violent behaviour,
PHYSICIAN: He seems more frustrated than violent.
TUVOK: Long range sensors have detected no trace. Her disappearance remains a mystery. I am deeply concerned.
EMH: What are you concerned about, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Her disappearance.
EMH: Whose?
TUVOK: 53 31 71 53.
PHYSICIAN: He's been repeating those same numbers over and over again. 53 31 71. It might be a stardate.
EMH: Stardate 53317. If my memory files are accurate, that was the day Captain Janeway was abducted by the Kellidians. Is that who you're talking about, Tuvok? Captain Janeway?
TUVOK: Her disappearance remains a mystery.
EMH: No, you solved that mystery, Tuvok. You rescued the captain and brought her back to Voyager safe and sound. Remember?
TUVOK: I am deeply concerned, deeply concerned.
PHYSICIAN: Do you think if the Admiral paid him a visit, showed him that she was all right?
EMH: Unfortunately, she's out of town right now. I'm not sure when she'll be back.
TUVOK: She's never coming back! Her disappearance remains a mystery. I'm deeply concerned. Deeply concerned.

[Barclay's office]

EMH: Voyager to Pathfinder. Come in, Pathfinder.
BARCLAY: Doctor! What a pleasant surp. Oh, I've forgotten about our golf game again, haven't I?
JANEWAY: Relax, Reg, it's not until next week. I'm here because I need to get in touch with Admiral Janeway.
BARCLAY: Oh, she's out of town.
EMH: I know. Did she tell you where she was going?
BARCLAY: Er, I'm afraid it, it never came up. I mean, is something wrong?
EMH: I'm not sure. I paid a visit to Tuvok this morning. He seemed to think that she was in some sort of danger.
BARCLAY: Well, you know better than anyone how confused Tuvok can get.
EMH: Yes, but I've been worried about the admiral, too.
BARCLAY: Why?
EMH: Two days ago, she asked me for a large quantity of an experimental medication. When I asked her why she needed it, she said it was classified.
BARCLAY: Then you shouldn't be telling me about it, should you?
EMH: I spoke to Director Okaro at Starfleet Intelligence. He assured me that the admiral hasn't been involved in any classified work since she began teaching at the Academy.
BARCLAY: You know how sneaky these Intelligence people can be. Maybe he was just trying to throw you off.
EMH: Maybe. But still. She's been talking for months about how excited she is to be teaching with you. Then, just as the semester begins, she goes away without even telling you where. Don't you find that a little strange?
BARCLAY: I, I'm sure that there is a perfectly reasonable explanation, Doctor. I'm sorry, I have some p-papers to grade.
EMH: You're stammering, Reg.
BARCLAY: S-s-so?
EMH: I haven't heard you do that in years. I think you do know where she is.
BARCLAY: She is one of the most decorated officers in all of Starfleet history, and I'm, I'm sure she can take care of herself.
EMH: You wouldn't be saying that unless she was doing something dangerous.
BARCLAY: You are putting words in my mouth.
EMH: Tell me where she is, Reg.

[Cavern]

(Admiral Janeway beams in.)
MIRAL: Welcome to the House of Korath, Admiral.
JANEWAY: I love what he's done with the place.
KLINGON: Kuva'kor li'ju!Q mah. (perhaps.)
MIRAL: PetaQ! DabeQ chu'magh an'noQ. (I think)
JANEWAY: What was that about?
MIRAL: He said your demeanour was disrespectful.
JANEWAY: I hope you told him I didn't mean to be rude.
MIRAL: I told him if he didn't show you more respect, I would break his arm.
JANEWAY: You are your mother's daughter.
MIRAL: Korath is waiting. We should go in.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but this is where we part ways.
MIRAL: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: You're dismissed, Ensign.
MIRAL: But, Admiral, I really think that
JANEWAY: I can take care of myself.
MIRAL: With all due respect, I've been working on this for six months, and
JANEWAY: And you've done an exemplary job. But it's over. Understood?
MIRAL: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I happen to know your parents are anxious to spend some time with you. Take a few days leave. Go and see them.

[Laboratory]

(Korath is working on a weapon when Janeway is escorted in.)
KORATH: A Cardassian disruptor. I've modified it to emit a nadion pulse.
JANEWAY: Impressive, but that's not what I've come for.
KORATH: No. You've come for something far more dangerous.
JANEWAY: Where is it?
KORATH: Somewhere safe.
JANEWAY: I went to a great deal of trouble to get you your seat on the High Council. Now give me what you promised.
KORATH: I've scanned your shuttle. It appears that you've made some interesting modifications. Your shield generator is of particular interest.
JANEWAY: It's not for sale.
KORATH: Then what you want isn't available either.
JANEWAY: We had an agreement.
KORATH: Show the admiral out.

[2378 - Bridge]

PARIS: Maybe Chell should add Nebula Soup to his menu.
JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Astrometrics.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Any more data on those neutrino emissions?

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Negative, Captain. I still can't get a clear scan.
JANEWAY [OC]: Distance to the centre?
SEVEN: Six million kilometres.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I'm detecting a tritanium signature, bearing three four two, mark five five.
PARIS: Whatever it is, it's too close.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
CHAKOTAY: Is it a ship?
TUVOK: Possibly.
KIM: Another tritanium signature, right on top of us.
(A Borg Cube looms out of the fog.)
JANEWAY: Tom!
(They duck underneath it.)
JANEWAY: Get us out of here now.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

BORG [OC]: Vessel identified: USS Voyager. We will pursue and assimilate.
QUEEN: No. They haven't compromised our security. Let the vessel continue, for now. I'll keep an eye on them.

[Briefing room]

(Course projection grid 641.)
TUVOK: There's no evidence that the Cube detected us.
CHAKOTAY: Where is it now?
SEVEN: Approximately three light years away.
PARIS: How could they not have seen us? We came within ten metres of their hull.
TUVOK: The Borg wouldn't knowingly risk a collision. The radiation must have interfered with their sensors as well.
KIM: If they can't detect us, we should go back.
SEVEN: I wouldn't recommend it. My analysis of the tritanium signature suggests there were at least forty seven Borg vessels inside the nebula.
KIM: We can't just give up on those wormholes.
JANEWAY: Oh yes, we can.
KIM: What if we try to modify
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Mister Kim. You may be the captain someday, but not today.

[Corridor]

(Back in normal empty space.)
KIM: Tom, what are you doing when your shift ends?
PARIS: No plans. Why?
KIM: I've been thinking. You and I should have some fun. One last adventure before you get too busy being a father.
PARIS: Did you reserve some holodeck time?
KIM: I've got a better idea.
(Kim hands him a PADD.)
PARIS: This is your idea of fun?
KIM: It'll work. We just need to make a few modifications to the Flyer.
PARIS:: We might as well just hand it over to the Borg.
KIM: How could that happen with the best pilot in the quadrant at the helm?
PARIS: Nice try.
KIM: If we go to the captain together, she'll be much more likely to approve my plan.
PARIS: I don't want her to approve it.
KIM: Where's your sense of adventure?
PARIS: I left it in that nebula and I'm not going back for it.
KIM: Don't you want to find a way home?
PARIS: I am home, Harry.
(Paris enters a turbolift. Kim stops the doors closing.)
KIM: Captain Proton would never walk away from a mission like this.
PARIS: Captain Proton doesn't have a wife, and a baby on the way.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: If you're here for my daily report, it's not complete.
CHAKOTAY: Actually I'm here in an unofficial capacity. I was wondering if you'd like to get together again.
SEVEN: To do what?
CHAKOTAY: Well, that all depends on your research. Would a quiet dinner be an appropriate fourth date?
SEVEN: I believe it would be a more suitable fifth date.
CHAKOTAY: I'm willing to skip ahead if you are.

[Sickbay]

EMH: You're fine, aside from some minor inflammation around your biradial clamp. Let me know if it starts to bother you. Is there something else?
SEVEN: Do you remember three months ago, when my cortical node shut down?
EMH: How could I forget.
SEVEN: You said it might be possible to remove the fail-safe device that was causing the problem.
EMH: Has it been giving you trouble again?
SEVEN: No, but I've reconsidered your offer to extract it.
EMH: I've been hoping you would.
SEVEN: You said it would require several surgeries.
EMH: Actually, in anticipation of your change of heart, I've been studying the problem in more detail. I now believe I can reconfigure the microcircuitry with a single procedure. You'll be free to experience the full ranges of emotions. Everything from a hearty belly laugh to a good cry.
SEVEN: How soon can you do it?
EMH: Today, if you'd like.
SEVEN: My shift ends at eighteen hundred hours.
EMH: It's a date. Speaking of dates. Once the fail-safe is gone, you'll be free to pursue more intimate relationships.
SEVEN: I'm aware of that.
EMH: If you decide you need help with that aspect of your humanity, I'm always at your disposal.
SEVEN: I appreciate that.
EMH: Really?
SEVEN: Yes. But I already have all the help I need.
EMH: Ah, of course. You'll undoubtedly be running more simulations with the Chakotay hologram.
SEVEN: No, actually. I'll see you at eighteen hundred hours.

[2404 - Laboratory]

KLINGON: Maktah hoon Janeway takt.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: I've reconsidered your offer.
KORATH: I thought you might.
JANEWAY: I'll give you the shield emitter, but not until I've inspected the device you're offering. To make sure it's genuine.
KORATH: You question my honour?
JANEWAY: If you were honourable, you wouldn't have changed the terms of our agreement. Show it to me, or I'm leaving.
(Korath nods to the Klingon, and a masking forcefield is lowered to reveal the device. Janeway steps into the alcove to scan it.)
JANEWAY: This will do just fine.
(She slaps a small gizmo on it and taps her tricorder.)
KORATH: Stop her!
(Admiral Janeway and the mystery device are beamed away amid disruptor beams.)

[Shuttlecraft]

JANEWAY: Computer, deploy armour.
(Plates of armour appear over the shuttlecraft.)
JANEWAY: Lay in a course for these coordinates.
(A Klingon vessel fires at her as she flies away. The comm. beeps.)
JANEWAY: What do you want?
KORATH [on monitor]: You'll pay for your deceit, ghuy'cha! The House of Korath won't rest until you've drowned in your own blood!
JANEWAY: I'd love to stay and chat, but I'm on a tight schedule.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Computer, warp six.
(Later -)
COMPUTER: Approaching designated co-ordinates.
JANEWAY: All stop.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching. Vector one two one mark six.
(A Starfleet vessel drops out of warp above her.)
JANEWAY: Harry. And people are always saying that space is so big.
KIM [on monitor]: Lower your shields, Admiral. Prepare for transport. I'm taking you into custody.
JANEWAY: You have no grounds to take me into custody, Captain.
KIM [on monitor]: Reg told the Doctor everything, and the Doctor told me. Now please, Admiral, stand down.
JANEWAY: On one condition. You let me explain why I'm doing this.

[USS Rhode Island - Kim's Ready room]

KIM: You have no idea what the consequences would be.
JANEWAY: I know what the consequences are if we do nothing. So do you. I have a chance to change all that.
KIM: If Starfleet Command knew what you were trying to do
JANEWAY: You haven't told them?
KIM: The Doctor and I decided to keep things in the family.
JANEWAY: What about your crew?
KIM: I told them I needed to take you back to Starfleet Medical because you'd contracted a rare disease.
JANEWAY: I hope it isn't terminal.
KIM: No, but it has been known to affect judgment.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing, Harry.
KIM: Do you? Can you say with absolute certainty that it'll work? Because if you can't. Even if it weren't a violation of every rule in the book, it would still be far too risky. What.
JANEWAY: I'm remembering a young Ensign who wanted to fly into a Borg-infested nebula, just to explore the remote possibility that we might find a way home.
KIM: If I remember correctly, you stopped me.
JANEWAY: We didn't know then what we know now.
KIM: Our technology may have advanced, but
JANEWAY: I'm not talking about technology, I'm talking about people. People who weren't as lucky as you and me. You said you and the Doctor wanted to keep things in the family. But our family's not complete any more, is it? I'm asking you to trust my judgment, Harry. One last time.

[2378 - Chakotay's quarters]

(Seven beams in with a bouquet of flowers.)
SEVEN: Am I early?
CHAKOTAY: No, you're right on time. Something wrong with the door?
SEVEN: I didn't think it would be discreet to be seen carrying flowers to the First Officer's quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Your research? I should put these in water.
(Seven pulls him back and kisses him.)
SEVEN: I've been told that anticipation of the first kiss is often uncomfortable. I wanted to alleviate the tension.
CHAKOTAY: That was very considerate of you. What about the second kiss?
SEVEN: I'd have to check the database. It may indicate
(He kisses her.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Senior officers report to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Next time we deactivate the comm. system.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: What is it?
JANEWAY: Judging from the tachyon emissions, some sort of temporal rift.
SEVEN: How's it being generated?
JANEWAY: That's what we're trying to figure out.

[2404 - Janeway's shuttle]

KIM: If Starfleet Command finds out I had anything to do with this, they'll demote me back to Ensign.
JANEWAY: You worry too much, Harry. It's turning you grey.
KIM: Propulsion's online, plasma flow's stable. This device of Korath's, it produces too much tachyo-kinetic energy. It could burn itself out by the time you get where you're going. You wouldn't be able to get back.
JANEWAY: I always assumed it was a one way trip.
KIM: You're sure I can't talk you out of this? Right. Stupid question.
(Janeway hugs Kim.)
KIM: Kim to the Rhode Island, one to beam back.
(Kim is beamed away. The USS Rhode Island is long gone when -)
JANEWAY: Computer, activate the chrono-deflector.
(A green light comes on on the top of the shuttle. Two Klingon ships fire at it)
JANEWAY: Deploy armour.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Ablative generator is offline.
JANEWAY: Evasive pattern beta six. Open a channel to the Rhode Island.
KIM: Harry, I'm under attack. How fast can you get back here?

[2378 - Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm detecting nadion discharges on the other side of the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Weapons fire?
TUVOK: It's possible. The signature appears to be Klingon.
JANEWAY: Red alert.

[2404 - Janeway's shuttle]

(The Rhode Island returns and attacks the Klingons from astern.)
KIM [OC]: Stand by for transport, Admiral.
JANEWAY: You know where I'm going, Harry, and it's not to your ship.
KIM [OC]: Your structural integrity is failing.
JANEWAY: Just get these Klingons off my tail. Computer, activate the tachyon pulse and direct it to these spatial and temporal coordinates.
(The pulse creates a rift, and the shuttle flies into it.)

[2378 - Bridge]

TUVOK: There's a vessel coming through the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Klingon?
TUVOK: No, Federation.
(Admiral Janeway's shuttle flies out.)
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ADMIRAL [on viewscreen]: Recalibrate your deflector to emit an anti-tachyon pulse. You have to seal that rift.
JANEWAY It's usually considered polite to introduce yourself before you start giving orders.
TUVOK: Captain, a Klingon vessel is coming through.
ADMIRAL [on viewscreen]: Close the rift. In case you didn't notice, I outrank you, Captain. Now do it.
(Voyager closes the rift, stopping the Klingon.)
JANEWAY: I did what you asked. Now tell me what the hell is going on.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

ADMIRAL [on monitor]: I've come to bring Voyager home.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
ADMIRAL: It's good to be back.
(Tuvok and Chakotay are also there.)

[Ready room]

ADMIRAL: Fresh coffee.
JANEWAY: Would you like a cup?
ADMIRAL: No, I gave it up years ago. I only drink tea now. I told the curator at the museum that if he wanted to make the ready room more authentic, he should always keep a steaming pot of coffee on the desk.
JANEWAY: Voyager's in a museum?
ADMIRAL: Voyager is a museum, on the grounds of the Presidio. On a clear morning, you can see Alcatraz from here.
JANEWAY: You made it back to Earth.
ADMIRAL: Unfortunately, our favourite cup took a bit of a beating along the way. It was damaged during a battle with the Fen Domar.
JANEWAY: Who?
ADMIRAL: You'll run into them in a few years.
JANEWAY: You know what? I shouldn't be listening to details about the future.
ADMIRAL: Oh, the almighty Temporal Prime Directive. Take my advice. It's less of a headache if you just ignore it.
JANEWAY: You've obviously decided to, or you wouldn't be here.
ADMIRAL: A lot's happened to me since I was you.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm still me, and this is still my ship. So no more talk about what's going to happen until I decide otherwise. Understood?
ADMIRAL: All right. Let's talk about the past. Three days ago, you detected elevated neutrino emissions in a nebula in grid nine eight six. You thought it might be a way home. You were right. I've come to tell you to take Voyager back to that nebula.
JANEWAY: It was crawling with Borg.
ADMIRAL: I've brought technology that'll get us past them. Oh, I don't blame you for being sceptical. But if you can't trust yourself, who can you trust?
JANEWAY: For the sake of argument, let's say I believe everything you're telling me. The future you come from sounds pretty good. Voyager's home, I'm an admiral. There are ways to defend against the Borg. My ready room even gets preserved for posterity.
ADMIRAL: So, why would you want to tamper with such a rosy timeline? To answer that, I'd have to tell you more than you want to know. But suffice it to say, if you don't do what I'm suggesting, it's going to take you another sixteen years to get this ship home, and there are going to be casualties along the way. I know exactly what you're thinking.
JANEWAY: You've also become a telepath?
ADMIRAL: I used to be you, remember? You're asking yourself, is she really who she says she is, or is this some sort of deception? For all you know, I could be a member of species 8472 in disguise. Have your people examine my shuttle. Tell them to take a close look at the weapons systems and the armour technology. In the meantime, the Doctor can confirm my identity.

[Sickbay]

EMH: My scans of the Admiral's cerebral cortex turned up something interesting,
JANEWAY: What is it?
EMH: I'm not sure. I've never seen this kind of implant before.
JANEWAY: Alien technology?
EMH: The microcircuitry has a Starfleet signature.
ADMIRAL: Of course it does.
EMH: Admiral?
ADMIRAL: You invented it. Twelve years ago, from my perspective.
EMH: I'm sorry, Admiral, I didn't realise.
ADMIRAL: What, that I was eavesdropping? I may be old, but my hearing's still excellent, thanks to your exemplary care over the years.
EMH: So, this implant I'm going to invent. What does it do?
ADMIRAL: It's a synaptic transceiver. It allows me to pilot a vessel equipped with a neural interface.
EMH: Fascinating. Tell me, what other extraordinary breakthroughs am I going to make?
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Sorry, Captain, but you can't blame a hologram for being curious.
JANEWAY: Just finish your report.
EMH: Yes, ma'am. My scans indicate the two of you are genetically identical. The admiral is you, approximately twenty six years from now.
(Seven enters.)
ADMIRAL: Hello, Seven.
SEVEN: The technology aboard the admiral's ship is impressive. Much of it appears to have been designed to defend against the Borg.
JANEWAY: Could we install these systems on Voyager?
SEVEN: The stealth technology is incompatible, but I believe we can adapt the armour and weapons.
ADMIRAL: Well, Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it.

Captain's personal log, stardate 54973.4. We've begun outfitting Voyager with Admiral Janeway's upgrades. As soon as the major modifications are complete, we'll reverse course and head back to the nebula. Though I've certainly had some strange experiences in my career, nothing quite compares to the sight of my future self briefing my officers on technology that hasn't been invented yet.

[Cargo Bay two / Borg Queen's chamber]

SEVEN: Computer, begin regeneration cycle.
QUEEN: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. It's been too long.
SEVEN: What do you want?
QUEEN: Do I need a reason to visit a friend?
SEVEN: We're not friends.
QUEEN: No. We're more than that, we're family. And while we're on the subject of old friends, I see that Voyager has just gotten a visitor, and she's come from the future. Tell me why.
SEVEN: You may be able to communicate with me while I'm regenerating, but I'm no longer a drone. I don't answer to you.
QUEEN: I've extrapolated Voyager's trajectory. I know that you're returning to the nebula. I suggest you alter course.
SEVEN: Why should we comply?
QUEEN: You've always been my favourite, Seven. In spite of their obvious imperfections. I know how much you care for the Voyager crew. So I've left them alone. Imagine how you'd feel if I were forced to assimilate them.
SEVEN: Voyager is no threat to the Collective. We simply want to return to the Alpha Quadrant.
QUEEN: I've no objection to that. But if you try to enter my nebula again, I'll destroy you.
(Seven collapses.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Her cortical node was exposed to a low-energy EM surge. It could have been much worse.
SEVEN: It was the Borg Queen. She wanted to make sure I'd be able to deliver a message. She said she'd assimilate Voyager if we attempted to re-enter the nebula.
JANEWAY: Why is it so important to her?
ADMIRAL: It doesn't matter. She's not going to be able to make good on her threat.
JANEWAY: I wish I shared your confidence.
ADMIRAL: You would if you'd had as much experience with the Queen as I have.
JANEWAY: It was one thing to attempt this when we thought it was a secret but if the Borg are monitoring us.
ADMIRAL: There's no guarantee they won't try to assimilate Voyager even if we don't go back into the nebula.
EMH: Is that supposed to be reassuring?
ADMIRAL: I'm not saying the Borg aren't dangerous, but from my perspective, they're thirty years behind the times.
JANEWAY: We shouldn't push our luck.
ADMIRAL: Luck's not going to have anything to do with it. I know, you don't want to hear too much about the future, but let's just say I ran into the Borg a few more times before I made it home. If I hadn't developed technology and tactics that could defeat them, I wouldn't be standing here today.
JANEWAY: We'll maintain course for the nebula, but we'll stay at Red alert. And I want continuous scans for Borg activity.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: I heard what happened. Are you all right?
SEVEN: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Because if you need time to rest, I am in charge of the duty roster.
SEVEN: It would be inappropriate to allow our personal relationship to affect your command decisions.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. This is a time to keep things professional. Report.
SEVEN: There's no sign of Borg activity within a ten light year radius.
CHAKOTAY: That's good news, Crewman.
SEVEN: Yes, sir. But we shouldn't underestimate the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: The Admiral seems confident we can make it past them.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is more cautious.
CHAKOTAY: Our chances would be good with one Kathryn Janeway on the bridge, but with two, I'd bet on this ship any day. If we do make it back to Earth, what are your plans?
SEVEN: I assume Starfleet will want to debrief me. And then I suppose I'll attempt to find a useful position somewhere. You?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know yet either. But wherever I end up, I'm going to make sure it's in transporter range of you.

[Engineering]

TORRES: I don't want this whole system crashing because of one faulty relay. Install new ones.
CREWMEN: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: And I need an update on the inductor capacitance.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Lieutenant.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Shouldn't you be on the bridge?
PARIS: Is there something wrong with the pilot requesting a systems report from the Chief Engineer?
TORRES: The last report I got said the comm. system was working perfectly.
PARIS: Okay, you caught me. I'm checking up on you.
TORRES: I'm fine.
PARIS: Your back?
TORRES: I'm ignoring it.
PARIS: Well, I would offer to give you a massage, but then everybody would want one.
TORRES: You know, for a Starfleet fly boy you're pretty sweet.
PARIS: So how's it going?
TORRES: This armour technology that the Admiral brought? It's incredible. I hate to sound like Harry, but we might actually make it this time.
PARIS: Well, you don't seem too happy about that.
TORRES: Oh, I'm happy. It's just that I'd actually gotten used to the idea of raising our daughter on Voyager. And now I might end up delivering her at Starfleet Medical instead of Sickbay.
PARIS: That wouldn't be so bad, would it?
TORRES: Not as long as you're with me. And I want the Doctor. I don't want some stranger.
PARIS: You would have to take him offline to keep him away.
TORRES: If we do make it home, where do you think we'll live?
PARIS: Well, we could always stay with my parents for a while. You're right. Bad idea.
TORRES: Of course, it probably doesn't matter to you anyway. You fly boys are all the same. You'll probably take the first piloting assignment that comes along and leave me home to change the diapers.
PARIS: Not a chance.
(He kisses her.)

[Bridge]

(Voyager arrives at the nebula.)
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: Deploy armour.
TORRES [OC]: Yes, ma'am.
(The ablative armour unfolds around Voyager. The Queen watches as it enters the nebula. A Cube fires at Voyager.)
TUVOK: Armour integrity at ninety seven percent.
(Three Cubes fire at them.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Integrity holding at ninety percent.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
(Voyager is scanned by all three Cubes.)
ADMIRAL: They're looking for ways to adapt.
TUVOK: Port armour integrity down to fifty percent, forty percent.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, attack pattern alpha one. Target the lead Cube and fire transphasic torpedoes.
(One Cube goes KaBOOM!)
JANEWAY: Target the second Cube.
(The Queen watches that one go KaBOOM! too. The third breaks off its attack.)
CHAKOTAY: Distance to the centre?
SEVEN: Less than one hundred thousand kilometres.
(They arrive at a massive ball of energy with a black spider's web nearby.)
JANEWAY: What the hell is it?
ADMIRAL: Mister Paris, alter course to enter the aperture at coordinates three four six by four two.
JANEWAY: Belay that. I asked you a question. What is it?
ADMIRAL: The road home.
SEVEN: It's more than that. It's a transwarp hub.
JANEWAY: You once told me there were only six of them in the galaxy.
SEVEN: That's correct.
JANEWAY: You knew this was here, but you didn't tell me about it. Why?
ADMIRAL: I'll answer all your questions once we're back in the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Take us out of the nebula.
PARIS: Captain?
JANEWAY: You heard me.
ADMIRAL: I gave you an order, Lieutenant. Proceed to the aperture.
JANEWAY: This is my bridge, Admiral, and I'll have you removed if necessary. Take us out.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]

(The armour is gone.)
SEVEN: This hub connects with thousands of transwarp conduits with end points in all four quadrants. It allows the Collective to deploy vessels almost anywhere in the galaxy within minutes.
TUVOK: Of all the Borg's tactical advantages, this could be the most significant.
CHAKOTAY: It's no wonder the Queen didn't want us in that nebula.
JANEWAY: So how do we destroy it?
SEVEN: The structure is supported by a series of interspatial manifolds. If we could disable enough of them, theoretically the hub would collapse.
ADMIRAL: This is a waste of time. The shielding for those manifolds is regulated from the central nexus by the Queen herself. You might be able to damage one of them, maybe two. But by the time you moved onto the third, she'd adapt.
JANEWAY: There may be a way to bring them down simultaneously.
ADMIRAL: From where, inside the hub? Voyager would be crushed like a bug.
CHAKOTAY: What about taking the conduit back to the Alpha Quadrant and then destroying the structure from the other side?
ADMIRAL: This hub is here. There's nothing in the Alpha Quadrant but exit apertures. While you're all standing around dreaming up fantasy tactical scenarios, the Queen is studying her scans of our armour and weapons. And she's probably got the entire Collective working on a way to counter them. So take the ship back into that nebula and go home before it's too late.
JANEWAY: Find a way to destroy that hub. Let's take a walk.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I want to know why you didn't tell me about this.
ADMIRAL: Because I remember how stubborn and self-righteous I used to be. I figured you might try to do something stupid.
JANEWAY: We have an opportunity to deal a crippling blow to the Borg. It could save millions of lives.
ADMIRAL: I didn't spend the last ten years looking for a way to get this crew home earlier, so you could throw it all away on some intergalactic goodwill mission.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should go back to Sickbay.
ADMIRAL: Why, so you can have me sedated?
JANEWAY: So I can have the Doctor reconfirm your identity. I refuse to believe I'll ever become as cynical as you.
ADMIRAL: Am I the only one experiencing déjà vu here?
JANEWAY: What are you talking about?
ADMIRAL: Seven years ago you had the chance to use the Caretaker's array to get Voyager home. Instead, you destroyed it.
JANEWAY: I did what I knew was right.
ADMIRAL: You chose to put the lives of strangers ahead of the lives of your crew. You can't make the same mistake again.
JANEWAY: You got Voyager home, which means I will too. If it takes a few more years then that's
ADMIRAL: Seven of Nine is going to die.
JANEWAY: What?
ADMIRAL: Three years from now. She'll be injured on an away mission. She'll make it back to Voyager, and die in the arms of her husband.
JANEWAY: Husband?
ADMIRAL: Chakotay. He'll never be the same after Seven's death, and neither will you.
JANEWAY: If I know what's going to happen, I can avoid it.
ADMIRAL: Seven isn't the only one. Between this day and the day I got Voyager home, I lost twenty two crew members. And then of course there's Tuvok.
JANEWAY: What about him?
ADMIRAL: You're forgetting the Temporal Prime Directive, Captain.
JANEWAY: The hell with it.
ADMIRAL: Fine. Tuvok has a degenerative neurological condition that he hasn't told you about. There's a cure in the Alpha Quadrant, but if he doesn't get it in time
(The implication is left unsaid.)
ADMIRAL: Even if you alter Voyager's route, limit your contact with alien species, you're going to lose people. But I'm offering you a chance to get all of them home safe and sound today. Are you really going to walk away from that?

[Ready room]

TUVOK: Your concern is appreciated, Captain, but premature. It will be several years before the symptoms become serious. Until then, the Doctor can manage my condition with medication.
JANEWAY: Is it true what the Admiral said? That there's a cure in the Alpha Quadrant?
TUVOK: It is called a fal-tor-voh, and it requires a mind meld with another Vulcan.
JANEWAY: What about the other Vulcans on Voyager?
TUVOK: None of them are compatible.
JANEWAY: But members of your family are? If you knew that returning to the Alpha Quadrant was your only chance for recovery, why didn't you object when I asked you to help find a way to destroy the hub?
TUVOK: My sense of logic isn't impaired yet. If we succeed, millions of lives will be saved.
JANEWAY: What about your life?
TUVOK: To quote Ambassador Spock, the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: I appreciate your candour, Admiral, but Captain Janeway is my commanding officer. I won't disobey her.
ADMIRAL: I'm not asking you to. I simply want you to tell her that in your opinion, destroying the hub is too risky, the cost too high.
SEVEN: I can't do that.
ADMIRAL: Even if it means avoiding the consequences I mentioned?
SEVEN: Now that I know about those consequences, they're no longer a certainty. But even if they were, my death would be a small price to pay for the destruction of the transwarp network.
ADMIRAL: I have known you for a long time, Seven. Longer than you've known yourself. You are thinking that collapsing the network is an opportunity to atone for atrocities you participated in while you were a drone. It's time to let go of the past and start thinking about your future.
SEVEN: My future is insignificant compared to the lives of the people we'd be saving.
ADMIRAL: You're being selfish.
SEVEN: Selfish? I'm talking about helping others.
ADMIRAL: Strangers in a hypothetical scenario. I'm talking about real life. Your colleagues, your friends, people who love you. Imagine the impact your death would have on them.
SEVEN: Excuse me, Admiral. I have work to complete.

[Briefing room]

The EMH and Admiral Janeway are there with all the senior staff.)
TUVOK: Once inside, we'd fire a spread of transphasic torpedoes.
SEVEN: They'd be programmed to detonate simultaneously.
TUVOK: If the torpedoes penetrate the shielding, the conduits should begin to collapse in a cascade reaction. In order to avoid the shock wave, we'd have less than ten seconds to exit the hub.
JANEWAY: A long time ago, I made a decision that stranded this crew in the Delta Quadrant. I don't regret that decision. But I didn't know all of you then, and Voyager was just a starship. It's much more than that now. It's become our home. I know I could order you to carry out this plan and none of you would hesitate for a second, but I'm not going to do that. You know the crewmen who work under you, and you know what your own hearts are telling you. So we're not going to attempt this unless everyone in this room agrees. No one will think less of you if you don't.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry.
KIM: I think it's safe to say that no one on this crew has been more obsessed with getting home than I have. But, when I think about everything we've been through together, maybe it's not the destination that matters. Maybe it's the journey. And if that journey takes a little longer so we can do something we all believe in, I can't think of any place I'd rather be, or any people I'd rather be with.
PARIS: To the journey.
CHAKOTAY: Hear, hear.
ALL: To the journey!
(All raise coffee mugs in salute while the Admiral glowers at their backs. Captain Janeway meets her eyes.)

[Mess hall]

ADMIRAL: Coffee, black.
JANEWAY: I thought you gave it up.
ADMIRAL: I've decided to revive a few of my old habits.
JANEWAY: Oh? What else, besides the coffee?
ADMIRAL: Oh, well. I used to be much more idealistic. I took a lot of risks. I've been so determined to get this crew home for so many years that I think I forgot how much they loved being together, and how loyal they were to you. It's taken me a few days to realise it. This is your ship, your crew. Not mine. I was wrong to lie to you, To think I could talk you out of something you'd set your mind to.
JANEWAY: You were only trying to do what you thought was right for all of us.
ADMIRAL: Well, you've changed my mind about that. And I'd like to help you carry out your mission. Maybe together we can increase our odds.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can do more than that. There's got to be a way to have our cake and eat it too.
ADMIRAL: We can't destroy the hub and get Voyager home.
JANEWAY: Are you absolutely sure about that?
ADMIRAL: There might be a way. I considered it once, but it seemed too risky.
JANEWAY: That was before you decided to revive your old habits.
(Admiral Janeway smells the coffee.)
ADMIRAL: I don't know why I ever gave this up.

[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]

(Janeway enters.)
ADMIRAL: It's about time. I'm not getting any younger, you know.
JANEWAY: You're sure you want to do this?
ADMIRAL: No, but Voyager isn't big enough for both of us.
(Janeway uses a hypo on her older self.)
JANEWAY: Good luck, Admiral.
ADMIRAL: You, too. Captain. I'm glad I got to know you again.
(Janeway leaves. The Admiral flies her shuttle into the nebula, and into the transwarp hub.)

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Any word from the admiral?
SEVEN: We lost contact as soon as she entered the hub.
CHAKOTAY: Did the Borg give her any trouble?
SEVEN: Her vessel was scanned by several cubes, but none approached her, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Are we keeping things professional again today?
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're not joking, are you.
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Nothing. I'm just busy.
CHAKOTAY: I think I've gotten to know you a little better than that.
SEVEN: I'd prefer it if you didn't speak to me as though we're on intimate terms.
CHAKOTAY: We are on intimate terms.
SEVEN: Not any more.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell is going on?
SEVEN: I've decided to alter the parameters of our relationship.
CHAKOTAY: You mind telling me why?
SEVEN: We both have dangerous occupations. It's possible one of us could be seriously injured, or worse. I believe it's best to avoid emotional attachments.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you can just flip some Borg switch and shut down your emotions, but I can't.
SEVEN: I suggest you try. It will make things less difficult for you if any harm should come to me.
CHAKOTAY: Why are you suddenly so concerned about that? Is there something I should know?
SEVEN: The admiral suggested that your feelings for me will cause you pain in the future. I can't allow that to happen.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, any relationship involves risk. And nobody can guarantee what's going to happen tomorrow. not even an admiral from the future. The only certainty is how we feel about each other here and now. If you think I'm going to let you end this because of what might happen, then you need to get to know me a little better.

[Sickbay]

(Torres is having labour pains.)
EMH: Try to relax, Lieutenant.
TORRES: If you tell me to relax one more time I'm going to rip your holographic head off.
EMH: I hope you don't intend to kiss your baby with that mouth.
PARIS: Tell me this isn't another false alarm.
EMH: This isn't another false alarm.
PARIS: I can't believe it.
TORRES: Oh, believe it!
PARIS: I might actually win.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: The baby pool. I picked today, fifteen hundred hours.
TORRES: I'm so glad I could accommodate you>
EMH: Don't celebrate yet. Klingon labour sometimes lasts several days. (Torres screams) Of course, I'm sure that won't be the case here.
JANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Lieutenant Paris. We're ready to get underway.
PARIS: Captain, I'm afraid
TORRES: Go.
PARIS: But
TORRES: No buts, fly boy. If this mission is going to succeed we need our best pilot at the helm. Don't worry, the Doctor will be here with me.
JANEWAY [OC]: Is there a problem, Mister Paris?
PARIS: On my way, Captain.
(He kisses Torres, strokes her belly and leaves.)
TORRES: Let's get this show on the road.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

BORG [OC]: Voyager has altered course. Current position spatial grid three six two. Trajectory one one two mark five.
ADMIRAL: I don't know how you do it. All those voices talking at once. You must get terrible headaches. If you're calling drones to assimilate me, don't bother.
QUEEN: I don't need drones to assimilate you.
(The Queen aims her tubules into Admiral Janeway's neck, then retracts them.)
ADMIRAL: I'm not actually here, your Majesty. I'm in your mind. I'm

[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]

ADMIRAL: Using a synaptic interface. If I were you, I wouldn't waste my time trying to trace the signal.
(It is the interface from Alice.)

[Borg Queen's chamber]

ADMIRAL: For the moment, it's beyond your abilities.
QUEEN: What do you want?
ADMIRAL: To make a deal. Captain Janeway thinks I'm here to help her destroy your transwarp network.
QUEEN: That's beyond your abilities.
ADMIRAL: Oh, I know that. And I tried to explain it to my naive, younger self, but she wouldn't listen. She's determined to bring down that hub.
QUEEN: She'll fail.
ADMIRAL: Yes, but she has weapons that I brought from the future. I believe you're familiar with them.
QUEEN: Transphasic torpedoes. We will adapt.
ADMIRAL: Eventually. But not before Voyager does a great deal of damage. I'm willing to tell you how to adapt to those weapons now.
QUEEN: In exchange for what?
ADMIRAL: Send a Cube to tractor Voyager and drag them back to the Alpha Quadrant.
QUEEN: You're asking me to believe that the incorruptible Kathryn Janeway would betray her own crew.
ADMIRAL: Not betray them, save them from themselves. I brought technology to help Voyager get home. But the captain's arrogant, self-righteous, and her officers are so blinded by loyalty that they're prepared to sacrifice their lives just to deal a crippling blow to the Borg.
QUEEN: But you'd never try to harm us.
ADMIRAL: I've become a pragmatist in my old age. All I want is to get that crew back to their families.
QUEEN: You wish to ensure the well-being of your Collective. I can appreciate that. I'll help you. But it'll cost more than you're offering.
ADMIRAL: What do you want?
QUEEN: Your vessel and its database.
ADMIRAL: I told you, I'll show you how to adapt to their torpedoes.
QUEEN: Insufficient.
ADMIRAL: If I let you assimilate technology from the future, there's no telling how events would be altered.
QUEEN: You're willing to alter the future by getting Voyager home now.
ADMIRAL: Oh yes, but there's a difference.
QUEEN: Do what all good pragmatists do, Admiral. Compromise.
ADMIRAL: All right. I'll give you the shuttle. After Voyager arrives safely in the Alpha Quadrant.
QUEEN: You've already lied to your younger self. How do I know you're not lying to me?
ADMIRAL: I guess you'll just have to trust me.
QUEEN: That won't be necessary. You underestimate me, Admiral. While we've been talking, my drones have triangulated your signal.

[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]

ADMIRAL: Computer, deactivate the interface. Deploy armour.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

(Admiral Janeway is beamed in.)
QUEEN: Very clever. Hiding right on my doorstep. Were you planning to attack us from inside the Unicomplex? Not feeling talkative?
(The Queen injects her with assimilation nanobots.)
QUEEN: You and I don't need words to understand each other.

[Bridge]

(Voyager heads for the transwarp hub.)
JANEWAY: Take us in.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

BORG [OC]: Voyager has entered aperture eight two three. Access transwarp corridor zero nine. Redirect vessels to intercept at subjunction
(The Queen gets an electric shock. The Borg voice becomes garbled.)
BORG [OC]: Corridor. Nine. Voyager. USS. S zero zero nine transwarp transwarp intercept.
(Things go bang around her. She grabs a stanchion to stay upright.)
ADMIRAL: Must be something you assimilated.
QUEEN: What have you done?
ADMIRAL: I thought we didn't need words to understand each other.
QUEEN: You've infected us with an neurolytic pathogen.
ADMIRAL: Just enough to bring chaos to order.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: The admiral's succeeded, Captain. The conduit's shielding is destabilising.
JANEWAY: Now, Mister Tuvok.
(Three torpedoes explode behind them.)

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: Voyager will be destroyed.
ADMIRAL: They're ahead of the shock wave. They'll survive. Captain Janeway and I made sure of that. It's you who underestimated us.
(The Borg Queen pulls off a malfunctioning arm.)
QUEEN: Sphere six three four. They can still hear my thoughts.
(The Sphere changes course inside the transwarp hub.)
QUEEN: I may have assimilated your pathogen, but I also assimilated your armour technology.
(Her left leg falls off. The Queen tries to stand, and fails.)
QUEEN: Captain Janeway is about to die. If she has no future, you will never exist, and nothing that you've done here today will happen.
(The Borg Queen dies, and the Central Complex explodes.)

[Starfleet Command]

ADMIRAL PARIS: What the hell is it?
BARCLAY: A transwarp aperture. It's less than a light year from Earth.
OFFICER: How many Borg vessels?
BARCLAY: We can't get a clear reading, but the graviton emissions are off the scale.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I want every ship in range to converge on those coordinates now.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]

(The transwarp hub is going KaBOOM. The Sphere is firing at Voyager.)
TUVOK: Aft armour is down to six percent.
KIM: Hull breaches on decks six through twelve.
(The Sphere prepares to activate its tractor beam.)
PARIS: I can't stay ahead of them, Captain.
TUVOK: The armour is failing.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the nearest aperture?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty seconds ahead, but it leads back to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, prepare to adjust your heading.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Starfleet Command]

(Starfleet vessels are gathering, including a Galaxy class.)
OFFICER: We've got eighteen ships in position, nine more on the way.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Open a channel.
BARCLAY: Open, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: This is Admiral Paris. Use all necessary force. I repeat, all necessary force.
BARCLAY: Sir, there's a vessel coming through.
(The Sphere arrives to a barrage of phaser fire.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Mister Paris, what's our position?
PARIS: Right where we expect it to be.
SEVEN: The transwarp network has been obliterated, Captain.
JANEWAY: We'll celebrate later. Mister Tuvok?
(Tuvok fires a torpedo, and the Sphere explodes from the inside out.)

[Starfleet Command]

ADMIRAL PARIS: Cease fire.
(Voyager flies out of the debris.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We did it.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen. (They see Admiral Paris, Barclay and the officer.)
JANEWAY: Sorry to surprise you. Next time we'll call ahead.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on viewscreen]: Welcome back.
JANEWAY: It's good to be here.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on viewscreen]: How did you
JANEWAY: It'll all be in my report, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on viewscreen]: I look forward to it.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Thanks for your help, Admiral Janeway.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to the bridge.
(There is a baby crying in background. Kim chuckles.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Doctor to Lieutenant Paris. There's someone here who'd like to say hello.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: You'd better get down there, Tom.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, the helm.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Set a course for home.
(The flotilla escorts Voyager to the shining blue and white planet.)


