S3 E1
Basics Part 2
Stardate: Unknown / 50023.4
Original Airdate: September 4, 1996

(Later, the crew are walking up into towards a range of hills, with an active volcano on the horizon behind them. Some are carrying pointed sticks. Ensign Wildman is carrying her baby, and staggers briefly. Commander Chakotay walks back to her.)
CHAKOTAY: Let me help you.
WILDMAN: No, really, I'm all right.
CHAKOTAY: Don't push yourself. That goes for everyone. Perspiring wastes water.
(He takes the baby from her. There is a ground tremor. Captain Janeway leads them through a gap in the rocks.)
JANEWAY: All right people, follow me. Let's take it slow. This is the most defensible location we've seen so far. The overhang should provide us with shelter, and the breeze should keep insects away. All right, let's make camp.

[Outside tunnel entrance]

(Meanwhile, Neelix's team is foraging. Hogan is by a hole in the rocks that has a skeleton lying in front of it.)
HOGAN: Neelix, look at this. They almost look constructed. Maybe the people on this world are cave dwellers.
NEELIX: If that's true, I'd say this is a do-not-disturb sign, wouldn't you? They look humanoid. We might be able to use these as tools or weapons. Gather them up, Mister Hogan. Is there a problem?
HOGAN: No, sir. Do you want all of them?
NEELIX: Waste nothing. That's one of the first rules of survival.
(Neelix drops the thigh bone he has picked up and leaves Hogan to his task.)
CREWWOMAN: Neelix, over here!
(Something rushes along the tunnel to the cave entrance. Hogan screams. When Neelix and others get there, he is gone.)
NEELIX: Hogan!

[Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: Computer, repeat stabiliser diagnostic.
COMPUTER: Damage has been detected in the stabiliser acceleration sensors.
PARIS: I just repaired the acceleration sensors.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching on intercept course.
PARIS: Signature?
COMPUTER: Kazon patrol vessel.
PARIS: Damn it! I don't have time for this.
(They start shooting at him.)
PARIS: I don't have time for this! Computer, all stop. Engage impulse.
(It takes three shots to destroy his attacker.)
PARIS: I told you, I don't have time for this.

[Camp]

(Night is falling.)
CHAKOTAY: That's all that's left of Hogan's uniform, Captain. We didn't find anything else.
NEELIX: This is my fault. If I hadn't told Hogan to pick up these bones.
KES: You shouldn't blame yourself, Neelix.
JANEWAY: Stop it. There's no time to worry about blame. Hogan was a fine officer and a good man. And our job is to make sure his death is the last one for a long time! I will not let this planet destroy my crew. Kes, see to it that everyone knows the tunnels are off-limits. I want clear safety protocols established. Mister Tuvok, we need weapons.
TUVOK: I have already begun to design some rudimentary devices, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's our food and water status?
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds grisly, but I can make solar stills with the material from this uniform. We could have water tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Do it.
NEELIX: Captain, none of the search teams were able to find plants of any nutritional value.
JANEWAY: Then tell the crew to start turning over rocks.
(She does so and finds some worms.)
JANEWAY: If anyone balks at eating these, tell them it's an order from their captain. They may be the difference between life and death.

[Sickbay]

SESKA: Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme.
(The EMH comes out of his office.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SESKA: Hello, Doctor. Remember me?
EMH: How could I forget such an intriguing medical mystery? A Bajoran crewman with a Cardassian physiology. How are you, Seska? I see we have a new passenger.
SESKA: Doctor, I have to inform you about a change of command. I'm curious how you'll react. The Kazon-Nistrim have taken Voyager.
EMH: How interesting.
SESKA: Does your programme have any problem with that?
EMH: One humanoid is pretty much the same as another from a holographic point of view. I'm programmed to provide medical care to anyone who needs it.
SESKA: Tell me, is it within your program's capabilities to lie or be deceptive?
EMH: I've learned that a bedside manner occasionally requires me to, how should I put it, soft-pedal the truth. But bald-faced lying, calculated deceit? I don't have much experience with that sort of thing. But my programme is adaptive. If you really need me to be deceptive, I'm sure I could learn.
SESKA: It's not exactly what I meant. I think we'll keep you just as you are.
EMH: As you wish. Your baby's in good health.
SESKA: Ah, you don't know how primitive Kazon medicine is. I'm sure Chakotay would be glad to know you're looking after his son.
EMH: Chakotay's son? That isn't Chakotay's son.
SESKA: But you're wrong, Doctor. I impregnated myself with his DNA.
EMH: That may have been your intention, but it certainly wasn't the result. Here. See for yourself.
(The EMH calls up his scan results on a monitor. Scan 4077 of course.)
EMH: Your child has Cardassian DNA strands here and Kazon DNA here. Human DNA has a significantly different nucleotide sequence.
SESKA: But I was so certain. He, he looks
EMH: He's the first offspring of a Cardassian and a Kazon. We have no frame of reference by which to judge his initial appearance. Perhaps he will develop more Kazon features as he matures.
SESKA: Maje Culluh will be so pleased. End Medical Holographic Programme.
(The EMH disappears and Seska leaves. Then he reappears again to make his log entry whilst walking into his office.)

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Medical Log, Stardate 50032.7. I have determined that Commander Chakotay is not the father of Seska's child. I only wish there was some way to inform him. What am I supposed to do? Lead a revolt with a gang from Sandrine's? Conjure up holograms of Nathan Hale and Che Guevara? I'm a doctor, not a counterinsurgent. Get hold of yourself. You're not just a hologram. You're a Starfleet hologram. Maybe, maybe I could access a tactical database, teach myself guerrilla warfare. But that would take time. Computer, what is the crew complement?
COMPUTER: There are eighty nine Kazon
EMH: Eighty nine.
COMPUTER: And one Betazoid on board.
EMH: What did you say? Betazoid?
COMPUTER: There is one Betazoid on board.
EMH: Where? Who?
COMPUTER: Please restate a single question.
EMH: Who is it?
COMPUTER: Crewman Lon Suder.
EMH: Suder. Where is he?
COMPUTER: Between decks eight and nine.
EMH: Doctor to Suder.

[Jefferies tube]

SUDER: Yes! Yes, Doctor. I hear you.
EMH [OC]: The ship has been taken over by the Kazon-Nistrim.
SUDER: I know. I've been hiding.
EMH [OC]: Can you make it to Sickbay?
SUDER: I think so.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Computer, emergency medical priority one one four. Delete the signature of Mister Suder's comm. badge from the system. There is to be no record of his being on board.

[Camp]

JANEWAY: Huddle together in groups. That'll preserve body heat. This is no time to be shy. Tuvok.
(Kim and Torres enter carrying ostrich-sized eggs.)
KIM: Captain. How do you like your eggs?
TORRES: We found a nest about two kilometres away.
KIM: And that's not all. Cucumbers, or something like them. There are vines full of them two hours from here.
JANEWAY: Take them to Neelix and tell him to hold off on the beetle stew, at least for the time being. How's she doing, Samantha?
WILDMAN: I don't know, Captain. She seems tired, listless.
JANEWAY: Maybe she's just adjusting to the environment. After all, she was born in space. Make sure you stay close to the fire, as soon as we have one.
CHAKOTAY: Trapped on a barren planet and you're stuck with the only Indian in the universe who can't start a fire by rubbing two sticks together. I was never good at this as a child and I'm still not good at it.
JANEWAY: Don't be so hard on yourself. None of the others have had any success with it either. Must be the wood.
CHAKOTAY: We need kindling of some sort.
(He stares at the Captain.)
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Something my father once told me about starting a fire.
(A short time later, all the long-haired crew have had to sacrifice a lock to the cause. Kim gets to cut Janeway's hair.)
KIM: There you go.
(Torres takes it to Chakotay and puts it by the friction hole in the log. The spinning stick finally makes it catch fire. A local watches his warm his hands by the flames. Later -)
NEELIX: If we put some bigger rocks around the fire, they'll reflect the heat better. I'm going to go get some.
(Neelix leaves. Kes follows.)

[Outside the camp]

KES: Neelix. You shouldn't go too far away from camp.
(She turns to go back and is grabbed by a local.)

[Shuttlecraft]

(Paris contacts the Talaxians.)
PAXIM [on monitor]: Voyager's been taken by the Kazon-Nistrim. They're flooding every subspace frequency with the news.
PARIS: Is there any word on the crew?
PAXIM [on monitor]: I'm afraid not.
PARIS: If you can help me with repairs, we can be on our way in a few hours.
PAXIM [on monitor]: Lieutenant, our ships are no match for Voyager and your shuttlecraft can hardly be expected
PARIS: Commander Paxim, my people are counting on you. Look, no one knows Voyager like I do. I know every vulnerability, every blind spot. Don't worry. I have a plan.
PAXIM [on monitor]: Very well. We'll rendezvous in an hour. Paxim out.
PARIS: One hour. I should be able to come up with some kind of plan in one hour.

[Sickbay]

(Suder enters through an access panel.)
EMH: I was beginning to think you'd got lost.
SUDER: I'm sorry. They're still repairing the ship. I had to be careful.
EMH: We have no time to waste. According to the computer, we're at warp. We've got to figure out some way to slow the ship down before we get too far from the crew. That would seem to be our first priority. And then we have to get some weapons. Mister Suder, are you listening to me?
SUDER: Yes.
EMH: Oh. I see. Perhaps you consider this an opportunity.
SUDER: Opportunity?
EMH: To obtain your freedom from confinement. How foolish of me to think you would want to help.
SUDER: You're wrong. I do want to help.
EMH: Then what?
SUDER: I'm going to have to kill some of them.
EMH: It is possible. Violence might be required to retake the ship.
SUDER: I've worked so, so hard over the last few months to control the violent feelings. I'm almost at peace with myself. I mean, I see the day coming when I could be.
EMH: Mister Suder. If Lieutenant Tuvok were here, I know he would tell you there are times when violence is required to defend yourself, to defend your ship, to defend your crew.
SUDER: Yes, there is a logical use for violence for everyone else. With me, once it begins
EMH: We must do this together, Mister Suder. If you don't trust yourself yet, then trust me. I will help you anyway I can. One hologram and one sociopath may not be much of a match for the Kazon, but we'll have to do.

[Camp]

CHAKOTAY: There are signs of a struggle near the edge of camp. I found alien tracks.
JANEWAY: We can't wait until morning to go after them.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'm better at tracking than starting fires.
TUVOK: I've completed a few weapons that might be appropriate, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: This is thoughtful of you Tuvok, but my tribe never used bows and arrows, and I've never even shot one.
TUVOK: This is mine. I taught archery science for several years at the Vulcan Institute of Defensive Arts.
JANEWAY: Take as many crew members as you need.

[Planet surface]

(Morning. Neelix and Kes are sitting in the middle of a circle of squatting locals dressed in skins. One moves forward and strokes Kes' hair. Another pushes him away and beats his chest like a gorilla.)
NATIVE: Toos. Feelhi hiseri.
NEELIX: Now, see here. You just keep your hands off her!
NATIVE 1: Toluhee.
NATIVE 2: Kahee! Kahee! Feelhi.
(The native males square up to each other and fight like gorillas. A female screams as Chakotay walks down the slope towards them. The fight ends and they try to wave Chakotay away.)
NATIVE 1: Sho! Kumi, kumi sho.
NEELIX: Commander. Thank goodness.
CHAKOTAY: Are you all right?
KES: They haven't hurt us.
CHAKOTAY: Have you been able to tell if they have a leader?
KES: I'd say it's the one with the claw.
(The oldest male with a claw on the end of a stout stick.)
NEELIX: I agree. The other two seem to be trying to figure out what to make of us. In a manner of speaking. Not in a culinary sense, I hope.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to the sound of my voice, and you'll know that I mean you no harm. I come without weapons. But I must have my people back.
(The chief silences the males and talks to Chakotay.)
CHIEF: Lum, usetum hator.
(He pushes a female towards Chakotay.)
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, but she should stay with you. I must take them with me.
NATIVE 1: Kodor, kodihor, kotiheer!
NEELIX: Stand? Certainly. I'll be happy to stand. What, 0ver here? Fine, fine, fine, fine.
CHIEF: Jimugan neesensak.
NEELIX: What? No. No. No! That is unacceptable!
CHAKOTAY: Kes, stand up slowly and walk away with us.
(Neelix and Kes walk away as Chakotay faces the chief.)
CHAKOTAY: We have to go now.
(He follows Kes and Neelix up the slope.)
CHAKOTAY: Just keep walking. Don't look back.
CHIEF: Tahee! Tahee!
(The tribe gives chase, and they run. Crewmen appear on the skyline, and one shoots a male with an arrow. A couple of spears are also thrown.)

[Outside a tunnel]

(The natives have the crew surrounded.)
CHAKOTAY: In there!
NEELIX: Commander, that looks just like the tunnel where Hogan
CHAKOTAY: I know. If they know it too, they won't follow us in. Come on!
(He is right.)

[Engineering]

(Cullah is watching from the top walkway. Seska is on the one below.)
CULLUH: You'd think this crew had never seen a warp drive before.
SESKA: No one tried to adjust the antimatter flow today?
KAZON ENGINEER: No one.
(Cullah goes down in the lift.)
CULLUH: If you're lying, I'll have your head.
KAZON ENGINEER: I swear it, Maje.
SESKA: There should have been some warning before the antimatter injector froze. A drop in core temperature, a magnetic constriction alarm, something. He's either lying, or
CULLUH: Or what?
SESKA: Computer, run a level one scan for intruders.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Internal scanner relays have been damaged.
CULLUH: I thought you said all repairs were complete.
KAZON ENGINEER: They were. I thought they were.

[Doctor's office]

SESKA [on monitor]: I want a deck by deck search of all Jeffries tubes and conduits. Use the Federation tricorders.
SUDER: Do you have a portable thoron generator?
EMH: Yes, of course. We use it to treat radiation burns.
SUDER: It's an old Maquis trick. Thoron particles neutralise tricorder sensors.
EMH: Mister Suder, we need some weapons if we're going to retake the ship.
(Suder goes into the access tunnel.)

[Camp]

(Baby Wildman is crying.)
WILDMAN: She has a fever. I don't know what to do.
JANEWAY: Let me get her some water.

[Outside camp]

JANEWAY: The baby needs water.
KIM: Those tremors seem to be getting stronger.
JANEWAY: Chakotay's team should have been back by now. We'd better look for them before it gets too hot. Get a few people together. I'll join you in a second.

[Tunnel]

(The natives start a brush fire to smoke them out.)
CHAKOTAY: Come on. We have to see if there's another way out of here.
(Further along, there is a small rock fall after a tremor.)
KES: I feel a breeze.
NEELIX: It's coming from this way.
(That way lies a cave with a giant serpent sleeping in it.)

[Outside the tunnel]

(The search party see the natives outside the tunnel entrance.)
KIM: Do you really think Commander Chakotay would go in there after what happened to Hogan?
JANEWAY: He may have had no other choice.
TORRES: How do we get them away from the tunnels?
KIM: A couple of phaser blasts would do the trick.
JANEWAY: Who are the fastest runners here?
TORRES: I was on the decathlon team before I quit the Academy. The track and field coach was furious with me.
JANEWAY: Anyone else here who can run?
AYALA: Yeah.
JANEWAY: Okay. You three will be the sprint team. Once you reach our camp, you should be safe.

[Tunnel]

CHAKOTAY: Which way do you like, Tuvok?
TUVOK: From a tactical point of view, the options are not encouraging. However, moving past the creature might lead us to an exit.
CHAKOTAY: All right, let's take it slow. Single file.

[Outside the tunnel]

(Torres, Ayala and a crewwoman throw rocks at the natives.)
TORRES: Hey! Up here!
AYALA: Come on!
TORRES: Up here. You want us? You want us? Come and get us! Come on. Come and get us.
(The natives give chase. Janeway, Kim and two crewman run down to the brush fire to clear the entrance.)
JANEWAY: Pull this.

[Cave]

(A crewman slips on the ledge and hangs by his fingertips above the serpent. It stirs as they pull him back up.)
KES: Look out!
(It snaps at them, and they fire arrows and spears at it.)

[Outside the tunnel]

JANEWAY: Chakotay! Tuvok!

[Cave]

KIM [OC]: The tunnel is clear!
CHAKOTAY: Go!

[Tunnel]

(They run back to the entrance. The serpent follows.)
CHAKOTAY: Everybody out!

[Outside the tunnel]

JANEWAY: Move. Let's go. Go! Go! Go, go!

[Tunnel]

TUVOK: Chakotay, your spear.
(The two men prod at a fracture in the tunnel roof, and create a fall just as the serpent reaches them.) 
CHAKOTAY: Go, go, go!

[Outside the tunnel]

JANEWAY: Come on, come on. Go!
CHAKOTAY: Come on.

[Jefferies Tube]

KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand it. Thoron particles are leaking into the conduits from somewhere. I can't get any other readings. Check the next level.
KAZON CREWMAN: Yes, sir.

[Doctor's office]

COMPUTER: Incoming subspace message on the Emergency Medical Holographic channel.
EMH: On the emergency channel?
PARIS [on monitor]: Doc, I hope you're receiving this because if you're not, I'm a dead duck. I'm piggybacking this message on a fake Kazon signal I'm sending to the Bridge. I'm betting they won't be monitoring your Emergency Medical channel. I'm bringing help, but you have to do something for us. When the attack begins, I need you to get the computer to block the discharge from the backup phaser power couplings. You got that? The backup couplings. I'm taking out the primary couplings myself, but I need those backups to overload when they switch to them. Don't do anything until the attack begins or they might notice. That's it for now. I'll be seeing you soon. I hope.
(Vessel schematic 4747 returns to the monitor screen. Suder returns through the access panel.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Good news. Help is on the way. Mister Paris apparently was able to. Oh.
(The Kazon crewman is dead.)
SUDER: I didn't know what to do. I didn't think I should leave him there where they could find him.
EMH: Of course. You were smart to bring him here. We can put him in a stasis drawer.
SUDER: Well, we have weapons now.
(Suder collapses and curls up on the floor.)
EMH: You did what was necessary, Mister Suder. Five cc's of improvaline will help you calm down.
SUDER: No! No drugs. I just need to breathe. See the light that is my breath.

[Ready room]

CULLUH: We've just received a message from our patrol ship. They have tracked down the shuttle from Voyager and destroyed it.
SESKA: Were two people on board?
CULLUH: They didn't say.
SESKA: Two people were unaccounted for when we captured the crew. Have they found any evidence of an intruder on board?
CULLUH: No. But the search has been slowed down by a thoron particle leak.
SESKA: Thoron particles? That's an old Maquis trick to fool tricorders.

[Outside the camp]

TUVOK: After what transpired, I believe we have to prepare ourselves for an alien attack, Captain. Our priority should be to increase the weapons arsenal and to begin training everyone in the use of these weapons.
JANEWAY: I don't like the sound of that, Lieutenant. We may have to coexist with these aliens a long time.
TUVOK: Nevertheless
CHAKOTAY: I agree with the Captain. We have to find a way to share this world with them.
TUVOK: You may find nobility in the savage, Commander, but he is only interested in killing you.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe that.
(Kes runs out to them.)
KES: Captain! The baby is very sick. She's having trouble breathing. She has a high fever. There's nothing more I can do for her.
KIM: Captain!
(There is a nearby volcanic eruption.)
JANEWAY: I think our top priority has just been dictated. Break camp. We've got to get out of here before it blows.

[Sickbay]

(Seska enters with two guards.)
SESKA: Why are you still here? I shut down your programme when I left.
EMH: You must be mistaken.
SESKA: Where's your thoron generator?
EMH: It was damaged on a recent away mission and left behind.
SESKA: Who else from Voyager is on board?
EMH: I wouldn't know.
SESKA: I don't believe you.
EMH: There are several dozen crewmen on board actually, and they have been working round the clock to sabotage your vessel.
SESKA: That's a lie. At most, there is one, and I believe it is a Maquis crewman.
EMH: Yes. Of course, you're right. It is one of the Maquis.
SESKA: I won't play these games with a trick of light.
EMH: Sticks and stones won't break my bones, so you can imagine how I feel about being called names.
SESKA: I don't believe you could have sabotaged this ship alone.
EMH: Very well. Since you are obviously about to disable my programme anyway, let me take the credit I deserve. I did sabotage the ship all by myself, with the computer's help, of course. As a matter of fact, one of your crewman came in unexpectedly and caught me in the act.

[Stasis room]

(Just off Sickbay. The EMH opens the drawer containing the Kazon crewman.)
SESKA: You killed him?
EMH: He left me no choice.
SESKA: Why create a thoron leak if you're not hiding someone?
EMH: I would think it's obvious. To make you believe I was hiding someone. I've had your people crawling through the bowels of this ship for hours looking for an intruder.
SESKA: You're more talented in the art of deception than you led me to believe.
EMH: I was inspired by the presence of a master.

[Sickbay]

SESKA: Computer, access Culluh Zero One. Disregard all voice commands from Starfleet personnel. Security lockout.
(Thump!)
SESKA: Seska to Bridge. What's going on?
KAZON CREWMAN [OC]: A couple of Talaxian ships have fired on us. Nothing to worry about.
SESKA: Goodbye, Doctor. I'd rather not take any more chances.
(Seska shoots at his hologram control panel, and he disappears.
(Down on the planet, the entire range of hills is starting to erupt. Suder returns to Sickbay.) 
SUDER: Doctor? Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to respond. All Starfleet voice access has been cancelled.

[Doctor's office]

EMH [on monitor]: Mister Suder. If you are hearing this, you have just unsuccessfully attempted to access the Emergency Medical Programme. I have programmed this message to play in the event that I have been disabled. This means, of course, that the fate of Voyager now depends solely on you. I can imagine how you must feel at this moment. I want you to know, you have my full confidence. You have already shown great courage and dedication to your crew. I have left an additional message for Captain Janeway and Lieutenant Tuvok noting your heroism, in case I am irretrievable. You know what you have to do and when to do it, and I know with our fate in your hands, we will prevail. Good luck, Mister Suder.
(The ship shakes under the Talaxian attack.)

[Bridge]

KAZON ENGINEER: The Talaxians are retreating toward the nebula.
CULLUH: We'll teach them the price for attacking the Nistrim. Lay in a pursuit course.

[Shuttlecraft]

PAXIM [OC]: Commander Paxim to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
PAXIM [OC]: They're following us as planned. We're bringing them to you.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Ready and waiting. I just hope you are too, Doc.

[Planet surface]

JANEWAY: This way.
(The tribe are also on the move. A female calls out and another turns and screams. The first female is trapped by lava on a rock. Chakotay goes down to help her.) 
FEMALE: Makee nah!
CHAKOTAY: It's okay.
(He puts her over his shoulder and carries her back up to safety. The chief is impressed.) 
CHIEF: Tal kada.
(He invites them to travel together.)

[Shuttlecraft]

(Voyager follows the Talaxians into the nebula.)
PARIS: Here we go.
(The shuttlecraft swoops underneath Voyager and fires at its targets.)

[Bridge]

CULLUH: What's happening?
KAZON ENGINEER: Our phaser power couplings are under attack.
SESKA: From where?
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't see anyone. I'm not picking up anything on the scanners. Shields are buckling.
CULLUH: Take evasive action.
(Suder creeps into Engineering, then starts shooting the Kazons there. They are all down in moments. He drops the phaser rifle and sets about disabling the backup couplings. A Kazon shoots him in the back, but he manages to complete the sabotage with his dying breath.) 
KAZON ENGINEER: I have it on the scanners. It's a Federation shuttlecraft.
CULLUH: Lock phasers. Destroy it.
KAZON ENGINEER: Primary phaser power is down.
SESKA: Switch to backup systems.
KAZON ENGINEER: Confirmed. Phasers are locked on.
CULLUH: Fire!
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand. I'm showing an overload.

[Shuttlecraft]

(Energy plays all over Voyager's hull.)
PARIS: Yes, Doc, yes! Paris to Commander Paxim. Stand by. I'm going to start transporting your people to Voyager.
PAXIM [OC]: Standing by.

[Bridge]

(Everyone has been knocked out, except the baby, which is crying. Seska recovers first and crawls towards the sound.)
CULLUH: Seska! Seska!

[Ready room]

(Seska dies by her baby. Paris and the Talaxians beam into a transporter room.)
CULLUH: Seska? No.
KAZON CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering to Maje Culluh. We're being boarded.
CULLUH: Abandon ship.
(He picks up the baby and leaves.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: I'm sealing off the Bridge manually. I've got to get the computer back online. All Starfleet voice access has been disabled.
PAXIM: I'm reading a Kazon shuttle leaving the ship. There are also escape pods being launched.
PARIS: Forget them. We have more important things to do.

[Planet surface]

(The chief places a leaf containing other herbs on Wildman's baby's chest. She stops crying.)
KES: She's breathing better, isn't she?
CHIEF: Sad katonk.
NATIVE: Anuk! Anuk! Anuk! Anuk!
(Voyager flies down through the atmosphere towards them.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Welcome back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well done, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I had a lot of help. The Talaxians, the Doc, Mister Suder.
KIM: Suder? We thought he was killed during the initial attack.
PARIS: No, he and the Doctor sabotaged the ship. Suder disabled the phasers before they killed him.

[Sickbay]

(Suder is laid out on a biobed, hands folded on his chest.)
EMH: You would have been proud of him, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I offer you a Vulcan prayer, Mister Suder. May your death bring you the peace you never found in life.
(Chakotay is by Seska's body on another biobed. He draws the sheet over her face.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Mister Kim, is this ship capable of sustained flight?
KIM: All propulsion and navigational systems are functioning within normal parameters, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good. Take us away from our new home and set a course for the old one, Mister Paris. Warp eight.
PARIS: Heading four one, mark seven seven. Destination, Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Engage.


S3 E2
Flashback
Stardate: 50126.4
Original Airdate: November 9, 1996

[Mess Hall]
(Neelix is pouring an orange drink.)
NEELIX: Anthraxic citrus peel, orange juice with just a hint of papalla seed extract. An experimental blend.
TUVOK: The success rate of your culinary experiments has not been high.
NEELIX: Ensign Golwat tried some yesterday, and she thought it was delicious. In fact, she had a second glass, and she never has seconds.
TUVOK: Ensign Golwat is Bolian. Her tongue has a cartilaginous lining. It would protect her against even the most corrosive acid.
NEELIX: All I ask is that you try it, Mister Vulcan.
(Tuvok sniffs and sips.)
TUVOK: Impressive.
NEELIX: Ah! I'll start squeezing that second glass. Breakfast is coming right up. Porakan eggs.
TUVOK: Porakan?
NEELIX: The most flavourful eggs in the sector. Scrambled with a little dill weed, a touch of rengazo, a galactic favourite. Now, these eggs were not easy to prepare. After we picked them up on Porakas Four, I had to sterilise them in a cryostatic chamber for three days. Then each and every one had to be parboiled
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I would prefer not to hear the life history of my breakfast.
NEELIX: On Talax it's a tradition to share the history of a meal before you begin eating. It's a way of enhancing the culinary experience. My mother was brilliant. She could make every course, every garnish come alive by making it a character in a story. My favourite was the one about the crustacean who
(Flames surge up around the egg pan, setting the contents alight. Neelix quickly smothers it with a lid.)
TUVOK: What happened?
NEELIX: Er, some sort of power overload. I'm afraid it decimated your breakfast. This is what my mother would call a tragic ending.
TUVOK: Engineering has been making adjustments to the plasma conduits to accommodate a new energy source. It may have created a thermal surge in the galley systems.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Tuvok. Please report to the bridge. Mister Neelix, I'd like you to join us as well.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.

Captain's log, stardate 50126.4. We have detected a gaseous anomaly that contains sirillium, a highly combustible and versatile energy source. We've altered course to investigate.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: Sirillium?
JANEWAY: Yes, and possibly large amounts of it. If so, we're going to need to stockpile as much as we can. I'd like to convert storage bay three into a containment chamber.
NEELIX: My pantry.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Neelix. You're going to have to make other arrangements.
NEELIX: Of course, Captain. You know, if I injected sirillium into my thermal array, it might improve cooking time.
TORRES: Yes, and blow up half your kitchen in the process. Sirillium is far more useful as a warp plasma catalyst.
TUVOK: The gas can also be used to boost deflector shield efficiency.
CHAKOTAY: The vultures are circling.
JANEWAY: Well, there's certainly no shortage of good ideas. Have all department heads submit proposals for sirillium usage.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: The anomaly is within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(This one is blue, not purple.)
JANEWAY: Analysis, Mister Kim.
KIM: It's a class seventeen nebula. I'm detecting standard amounts of hydrogen, and helium, and seven thousand parts per million of sirillium.
TORRES: Captain, I recommend we use the Bussard collectors to gather the sirillium. They'll cut through that nebula like ice cream scoops.
PARIS: I'm picking up a lot of plasmatic turbulence in there. It might be a bumpy ride.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you modify the shields to compensate?
(Tuvok's breath is shallow and his hands are twitching.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Are you all right, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: I don't know. I'm experiencing dizziness and disorientation. Permission to go to sickbay.
JANEWAY: Granted.

[Turbolift]

TUVOK: Deck five.
GIRL [OC]: Help me! Tuvok!

[Precipice]

(A girl is hanging over a big drop. A young Tuvok is trying to save her.)
GIRL: Help me, Tuvok! Please don't let go! Tuvok! Don't let me fall!
(Tuvok staggers along the corridor.)
GIRL: No!
(Her fingers slip from young Tuvok's grasp and she falls.)

[Sickbay]

(Tuvok enters and collapses, eyes staring. Later, Janeway is present while the EMH scans Tuvok.)
TUVOK: I was holding a young girl by the hand, tying to prevent her from falling from a precipice. I was unable to keep my grip, and she fell to her death. And there is more. I had an emotional response anxiety, fear. An almost irrational anger at myself for letting her fall.
KES: When did that happen?
TUVOK: It never happened. The girl was unfamiliar, and I've never been in that situation. It was me as a child, and it did seem like a memory, but I don't recall the incident.
EMH: Well, it was definitely a traumatic episode. Your heart rate accelerated to three hundred beats per minute. Your adrenaline levels rose by one hundred thirteen percent and your neuroelectrical readings nearly jumped off the scale. If you were human, I'd say you had a severe panic attack.
TUVOK: I am not human.
EMH: No kidding. I don't know what happened to you, but there can be any number of explanations. Hallucination, telepathic communication from another race, repressed memory, momentary contact with a parallel reality. Take your pick. The universe is such a strange place.
JANEWAY: I'll have Mister Kim examine the sensor logs. Maybe our proximity to the nebula is affecting you somehow.
EMH: In the meantime, Lieutenant, you are free to go. All of your vital signs have returned to normal, and I don't see any residual systemic damage. But I want you to wear this neurocortical monitor. In case you have another episode, it'll record a complete encephalographic profile and alert sickbay at the same time.
(The EMH places the device behind Tuvok's left ear.)
TUVOK: A wise precaution, Doctor. Thank you.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok has lit candles and is using bizarre building blocks.)
TUVOK: Structure, logic, function, control. A structure cannot stand without a foundation. Logic is the foundation of function. Function is the essence of control. I am in control. I am in control.
(But the house of not-cards collapses, then the doorbell chimes.)
TUVOK: Enter. Kes. What is it?
KES: The doctor wanted me to adjust your neurocortical monitor to pick up additional peptide readings. I can come back later if this is a bad time.
TUVOK: No. You may proceed.
KES: What are you working on?
TUVOK: It is called a keethara.
KES: Keethara. What does that mean?
TUVOK: The approximate translation is structure of harmony. It is used as a meditational aid. Building it requires precise balance and spatial acuity. It helps to focus thought and refine mental control.
KES: At the moment, it doesn't look very harmonious.
TUVOK: No, it does not.
KES: I'm curious. What does a keethara look like when it's done?
TUVOK: The form is not predefined. It is a reflection of the builder's state of mind. Thus, it is different each time.
KES: I'd like to see it when it's finished. Well, good night.
TUVOK: Kes.
KES: It's all right. I understand.
(Kes leaves.)
TUVOK: Structure, logic, function, control. A structure cannot stand without a foundation. Logic is the foundation of function. Function is the essence of control. I am in control. I am in control.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: So how are you feeling this morning?
TUVOK: If you are referring to yesterday's incident, I haven't experienced any further problems. I am fit for duty.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't ask because I'm concerned about your ability to perform, I'm concerned about you.
TUVOK: There is no need for concern.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry I asked.
TUVOK: My apologies, Commander. I am distracted. I spent fourteen hours last night in deep meditation, trying to determine the source of my aberrant behaviour. I could not.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should try to forget about it for a while. I've found that when you don't think about a problem, sometimes the solution comes to you.

[Engineering]

TUVOK: It is difficult to forget when you're wearing a neurocortical monitor on your parietal bone.
CHAKOTAY: Good point. Mister Kim?
KIM: I checked all the sensor logs. There's no sign of anything emanating from the nebula that would have affected Tuvok or Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Anything unusual about the nebula itself?
KIM: No, it's a standard class seventeen.
TUVOK: I suggest we conduct a tachyon sweep of the nebula. It would reveal the presence of any cloaked ships.
CHAKOTAY: Cloaked ships?
TUVOK: Yes. We should be extremely cautious this close to Klingon space.
TORRES: Tuvok, the Klingon Empire is on the other side of the galaxy.
TUVOK: Yes. Yes, you are right, of course. I'm uncertain why I would make such an obvious error.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should go back to Sickbay. Tuvok?
(Tuvok is back at the cliff.)
GIRL [memory]: Help me, Tuvok! Please don't let go! No!
(Chakotay catches Tuvok as he falls. The neurocortical monitor is going crazy.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: I think we may be dealing with a repressed memory. The memory engrams in the dorsal region of the hippocampus are being disrupted. It's causing physical damage to the surrounding tissue. In Vulcan medicine, this is known as t'lokan schism. It means that the subject is inhibiting a traumatic memory, which is beginning to resurface.
JANEWAY: And that's causing brain damage?
EMH: Strange, I know. In human subjects, repressed memories are nothing more than psychological traumas which can be dealt with, with standard therapeutic techniques. But in Vulcans, there is a physical reaction to the battle between the conscious and the unconscious. In extreme cases, the mind of the patient can literally lobotomise itself.
JANEWAY: What's the treatment?
EMH: There is no medical treatment for this condition. Vulcan psychocognitive research suggests that the patient initiate a mind-meld with a family member, and the two of them attempt to bring the repressed memory into the conscious mind.
JANEWAY: I'm the closest thing Tuvok has to a family member on this ship.
EMH: That's why I've asked you to come. He has a request to make of you.
(Tuvok is on a biobed, meditating.)
TUVOK: Did the doctor explain the situation to you?
JANEWAY: Yes. Tuvok, are you sure it's the right thing to do?
TUVOK: I don't know how else to proceed. The doctor tells me that this is a memory. And yet, no matter how hard I try, I cannot remember. If the doctor is correct, if this is an experience I pushed into my unconscious mind, it could be very dangerous to me, even life-threatening. I realise it's asking a great deal of you, Captain, and I did consider turning to one of the Vulcans on the ship, but this meld would be more intimate than most. A family member is normally chosen because of the implicit trust that usually exists. On this ship, I trust you more than anyone else.
JANEWAY: Whatever happens, I'll be there for you, Tuvok. I'll help you get through this.
TUVOK: I will initiate the meld and attempt to access the memory fragment. Once that has been accomplished, you will act as my pyllora.
JANEWAY: Your pyllora?
TUVOK: My guide, my counsellor. You will help me reconstruct the memory in its entirety. And as I am reliving it, you will help me to objectify the experience. By processing the experience, rather than repressing it, I can begin to overcome my fear, anger and the other emotional responses, and to reintegrate the memory into my conscious mind.
JANEWAY: When I'm in your memory, will I actually be reliving it with you?
TUVOK: No. I will be the only one who notices your presence. You will be an observer in the memory, but not a participant. This will give you the freedom to guide me objectively.
JANEWAY: When do we start?
TUVOK: I will need time to prepare. Please return in one hour.
(One hour later, Tuvok and Janeway are sitting opposite each other in chairs, in the surgery bay. Janeway is also wearing a monitor.)
EMH: We're ready when you are, Captain.
TUVOK: Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. I am taking us back, back to the boy that I was, the boy lying on the precipice.

[Excelsior bridge]

(Under attack. The crew are wearing 23rd century Federation uniforms. Welcome to the Undiscovered Country.)
SULU: Return fire!
VALTANE: They've knocked out our targeting scanners.
SULU: Damage report. Seal that conduit!
RAND: Hull breach on deck twelve, section forty seven. We've lost power on decks five, six and ten. Casualty reports coming in. Nineteen wounded.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you see me?
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: Where are we?
TUVOK: My first deep space assignment aboard the Excelsior.
JANEWAY: Why did you bring us here?
TUVOK: I did not intend to.
JANEWAY: Can you take us to the precipice? The girl?
TUVOK: That is precisely what I attempted to do.
JANEWAY: There must be some reason why your mind brought us here. Maybe this memory is connected to the girl in some way. How long ago is this?
TUVOK: Stardate 9521, approximately eighty years ago.
JANEWAY: Who were you fighting?
TUVOK: The Klingons.
JANEWAY: Klingons. Before you collapsed in Engineering, you thought we were approaching Klingon space. Why are you fighting Klingons?
TUVOK: This battle was precipitated by an incident that took place three days earlier.

[Gamma shift crew quarters]

RAND: All right, gamma shift, time to defend the Federation against gaseous anomalies.
JANEWAY: Gaseous anomalies. We were charting a gaseous anomaly on Voyager.
TUVOK: And that's when my problem began.
JANEWAY: That's more than a coincidence.
RAND: How are you this morning, Ensign?
TUVOK: I am well, Commander. Thank you.
RAND: I thought you might like to see some of this morning's com traffic before you went on duty. There's a message from the Yorktown I think you might be interested in. It's from your father.
TUVOK: Thank you.
RAND: You're not going to have time to drink that, you know. You're due on the bridge in five minutes.
TUVOK: It's not for me. It's for the Captain. I've observed that Captain Sulu drinks a cup of tea each morning. I thought he might enjoy a Vulcan blend.
RAND: Oh, I see. Trying to make Lieutenant in your first month? I wish I'd have thought of that when I was your age. Took me three years just to make Ensign.
TUVOK: I assure you, I have no ulterior motive.
RAND: Whatever you say, Ensign. See you on the bridge.
JANEWAY: You've never brought me tea.

[Excelsior bridge]

(Tuvok pours his tea into Sulu's gold rimmed USS-2000 cup, and he tastes it.)
SULU: Outstanding. I may have to give you a promotion.
TUVOK: That was not my motivation, Captain. I am not attempting to curry favour with you in any way.
SULU: Mister Tuvok, if you're going to remain on my ship, you're going to have to learn how to appreciate a joke. And don't tell me Vulcans don't have a sense of humour, because I know better.
TUVOK: I will work on it, sir.
SULU: Very good. And thanks again.
JANEWAY: He doesn't look anything like his portrait at Starfleet Headquarters.
TUVOK: In the twenty third century, holographic imaging resolution was less accurate.
JANEWAY: This is a science station, isn't it?
TUVOK: Yes. I am one of several junior science officers.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, why doesn't your service record reflect any of this? I thought your first assignment was aboard the Wyoming.
TUVOK: It's a long story, Captain, but suffice it to say, this was my first Starfleet career. I was twenty nine years old.
JANEWAY: So what's happening? Are we about to encounter the Klingons?
TUVOK: Not exactly. The Klingon moon Praxis is about to explode.
JANEWAY: Praxis.
TUVOK: During this period, it was a primary source of energy for the Klingon Homeworld.
JANEWAY: Praxis. Yes. Its destruction would have lasting repercussions throughout the quadrant, and it led to the first Federation-Klingon peace treaty.
TUVOK: That is correct.
JANEWAY: But what does all this have to do with the girl on the precipice?
(The ship shakes. Sulu's cup shudders its way off the small 'table' and smashes on the floor.)
VALTANE: I have an energy wave at two hundred and four degrees mark six port, sir.
(Subtitles say 240 degrees.)
SULU: Visual. My God!
(A purple shockwave is heading towards them.)
SULU: Shields! Shields!
(Impact. Everyone is thrown to the deck.)
HELMSMAN: (Russian) She is not answering the helm!
SULU: Starboard thrusters! Turn her into the wave!
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
SULU: Quarter impulse power. Damage report.
CREWMAN: Checking all systems, Captain.
(The wave passes on, leaving them.)
SULU: Don't tell me that was any meteor shower.
VALTANE: Negative, sir. The subspace shock wave originated at bearing three two three, mark seven five. Location. It's Praxis, sir. It's a Klingon moon.
SULU: Praxis is their key energy production facility.
JANEWAY: So what happened? Did you go to Praxis?
TUVOK: No. We were warned off by the Klingons, and resumed our survey mission. However, two days later, we learned that two Starfleet officers were accused of murdering the Klingon Chancellor. They were brought back to the Klingon Homeworld to stand trial. Captain Sulu had served under both officers for many years, and he felt an intense loyalty to them.
SULU: Helm, set a course for Kronos, maximum warp. Take us through the Azure Nebula. That should conceal our approach.
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
JANEWAY: I don't get it. What's going on?
TUVOK: He is about to attempt a rescue of Captain Kirk and Doctor McCoy. As you can see, everyone seemed perfectly willing to go along with this breach of orders. However, I felt differently.
TUVOK: Captain, am I correct in assuming that you have decided to embark on a rescue mission?
SULU: That's right. Do you have a problem with that, Ensign?
TUVOK: I do. It is a direct violation of our orders from Starfleet Command, and it could precipitate an armed conflict between the Klingon Empire and the Federation.
SULU: Objection noted. Resume your station.
TUVOK: Sir, as a Starfleet officer, it is my duty to formally protest.
RAND: Tuvok!
SULU: A pretty bold statement for an Ensign with only two months space duty under his belt.
TUVOK: I am aware of my limited experience, but I am also very much aware of Starfleet regulations and my obligation to carry them out.
RAND: That's enough. Ensign, you're relieved. I'm sorry about this, Captain. I assure you it will not happen again.
SULU: Ensign, you're absolutely right. But you're also absolutely wrong. You'll find that more happens on the bridge of a starship than just carrying out orders and observing regulations. There is a sense of loyalty to the men and women you serve with. A sense of family. Those two men on trial, I served with them for a long time. I owe them my life a dozen times over, and right now they're in trouble, and I'm going to help them. Let the regulations be damned.
TUVOK: Sir, that is a most illogical line of reasoning.
SULU: You better believe it. Helm, engage.
JANEWAY: You know, you did the right thing.
TUVOK: Perhaps.
(Later.)
VALTANE: Captain, we're approaching the Azure Nebula.
SULU: On screen.
JANEWAY: Tuvok. That nebula. It looks very similar to the one we observed on Voyager.

[Precipice]

GIRL: Help me, Tuvok! Please don't let go! No!

[Sickbay]

(Tuvok breaks the meld as he has a seizure.)
EMH: Fifty milligrams cordrazine!
(Later, Tuvok is unconscious on a biobed.)
EMH: There was a sudden disruption in his hippocampus. Luckily, he was in sickbay, or he'd be in a coma right now. That's the good news. The bad news is that his synaptic pathways are continuing to degrade. If the repressed memory keeps resurfacing on its own, it's going to cause more and more damage. Eventually, his entire neural structure will collapse, resulting in brain death.
JANEWAY: We were just starting to make some progress. We finally accessed the repressed memory. I saw Tuvok as a boy. And the girl on the precipice. Can I talk to him?
EMH: Not yet. He suffered a severe neural trauma, so I'm keeping him sedated for the next few hours. I'll let you know when it's safe to revive him.

[Ready room]

(Janeway is studying Starfleet records from 9521.6 when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Ah, Ensign. What have you found?
KIM: I don't see any connection between this nebula and the one the Excelsior saw eighty years ago. This one's a class seventeen, while theirs was an eleven. Both contain trace amounts of sirillium, but that's about all.
JANEWAY: But they do look similar.
KIM: To the naked eye, but not to sensors. Technically, they're very different. You know, I've been talking to the doctor, and he tells me it's not unusual for a repressed memory to resurface because of a smell or a visual detail. Maybe the visual similarities between the two nebulas simply triggered Tuvok's memory of the Excelsior.
JANEWAY: Well, what about the memory of the little girl? What does she have to do with Tuvok's experiences on board Sulu's ship? The Excelsior seems so far removed from that childhood incident.
KIM: Who knows that goes on in a Vulcan's mind. Maybe there is no connection. And going back to the memory of the Excelsior was just an accident, a stray thought Tuvok was having because of the similarities between the two nebulas.
JANEWAY: You may be right. Nevertheless, I've been studying the Excelsior logs.
KIM: What do they say?
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, they don't say anything at all.
KIM: Nothing?
JANEWAY: It would seem that Captain Sulu decided not to enter that journey into his official log. The day's entry makes some cryptic remark about the ship being damaged in a gaseous anomaly and needing repairs, but nothing else.
KIM: You mean he falsified his logs?
JANEWAY: It was a very different time, Mister Kim. Captain Sulu, Captain Kirk, Dr. McCoy. They all belonged to a different breed of Starfleet officer. Imagine the era they lived in. The Alpha Quadrant still largely unexplored. Humanity on verge of war with Klingons. Romulans hiding behind every nebula. Even the technology we take for granted was still in its early stages. No plasma weapons, no multiphasic shields. Their ships were half as fast.
KIM: No replicators, no holodecks. You know, ever since I took Starfleet history at the academy, I always wondered what it would be like to live in those days.
JANEWAY: Space must have seemed a whole lot bigger back then. It's not surprising they had to bend the rules a little. They were a little slower to invoke the Prime Directive, and a little quicker to pull their phasers. Of course, the whole bunch of them would be booted out of Starfleet today. But I have to admit, I would have loved to ride shotgun at least once with a group of officers like that.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Doctor.
EMH [OC]: I'm ready to revive Mister Tuvok.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: Several hours after we entered the nebula, we were ambushed by Klingons. A battle ensued, and we were forced to abort our rescue mission.
JANEWAY: Do any of those events seem related to the girl in any way?
TUVOK: No. If there is a connection I am not aware of it. I suggest we attempt another mind-meld, and try again to access my memory of the girl.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Doctor.
(They return to the chairs and Kes attaches the monitor to Janeway.)
TUVOK: Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. I am taking us back, back to the boy that I was. The boy lying on the precipice.

[Excelsior bridge]

RAND: Hull breach on deck twelve, section forty seven.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, we're back in the battle with the Klingons again, eighty years ago.
TUVOK: I am at a loss to explain, Captain, but it's hard to accept this as a coincidence.
JANEWAY: Agreed. I want to go back to the moment when you first saw the nebula. What happened?
TUVOK: Captain Sulu estimated it would take approximately five hours to traverse the nebula and enter Klingon space. He decided my shift needed some rest, so we returned to the crew quarters.

[Gamma shift crew quarters]

TUVOK: I attempted to get some sleep. However, my bunk mate Dmitri Valtane felt the need to discuss our situation.
VALTANE: Hey. Tuvok. Are you asleep?
TUVOK: No.
VALTANE: Me neither. I can't believe we're going to do this. I didn't think the Captain had it in him.
TUVOK: Had what in him?
VALTANE: You know. The guts to defy an order and run off on some rescue mission to save old friends.
TUVOK: I take it from the tone of your voice that you admire this trait.
VALTANE: Well, yeah. It's courageous.
TUVOK: It's illogical and reckless, which I attempted to point out to him on the bridge.
VALTANE: Oh, come on, Tuvok. Isn't it more fun than charting gaseous anomalies?
TUVOK: The human fascination with fun has led to many tragedies in your short, but violent, history. One wonders how your race has survived having so much fun.
VALTANE: Vulcans. You guys need to relax.
TUVOK: No, I will not relax. Ever since I entered the Academy, I've had to endure the egocentric nature of humanity. You believe that everyone in the galaxy should be like you, that we should all share your sense of humour and your human values.
VALTANE: Well, if you hated it here so much, why'd you join Starfleet in the first place?
TUVOK: I joined under pressure from my parents. But I've already decided to resign my commission once this assignment is complete.
VALTANE: Well, your loss.
(Valtane rolls over to sleep.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok, did you really mean that?
TUVOK: At this point in my life, yes. My experiences at the Academy and on board the Excelsior were not pleasant.
JANEWAY: I knew you left Starfleet for over fifty years, but I never knew why. I didn't realise it was because of a conflict with humans.
TUVOK: My perceptions of humanity and Starfleet were undoubtedly coloured by the fact that I did not want to be here in the first place.
JANEWAY: Your parents really forced you to go to the Academy?
TUVOK: It was their wish, and I felt an obligation to fulfill it.
JANEWAY: What did you do during those fifty years?
TUVOK: I returned to Vulcan, where I spent several years in seclusion, immersing myself in the Kolinahr, a rigorous discipline intended to purge all emotions. I wanted to attain a state of pure and total logic.
JANEWAY: What happened?
TUVOK: Unfortunately, six years into my studies, I began the Pon farr. I took a mate.
JANEWAY: T'Pel.
TUVOK: Yes. We decided to raise a family together, so I chose to postpone my studies.
JANEWAY: And what brought you back to Starfleet?
TUVOK: Raising children of my own made me appreciate what my parents experienced raising me. And I came to realise that the decisions I made as a young man were not always in my best interest. I understood their decision to send me to the Academy, and that there were many things I could learn from humans and other species, so I decided to expand my knowledge of the galaxy. Starfleet provided that opportunity.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm glad you had a change of heart.
TUVOK: As am I, Captain. Although, heart had very little to do with it. It was a logical decision.
JANEWAY: I'm sure it was.
SULU [OC]: Red alert! All hands to battle stations!
VALTANE: Oh, what's going on? I thought we were still five hours from Klingon space.
TUVOK: A Klingon battle cruiser decloaked inside the nebula. At this moment, they were firing concussive charges across our bow.

[Excelsior bridge]

RAND: We're being hailed, Captain.
SULU: On screen.
KANG [on viewscreen]: Mister Sulu, I see they have finally given you the captaincy you deserve.
SULU: Thank you, Kang.
KANG [on viewscreen]: Do not let it end prematurely.
SULU: Kang, we've been on a survey mission studying this nebula. Our navigation system malfunctioned, and I'm afraid we got lost. As soon as we've completed repairs, we'll be on our way.
KANG [on viewscreen]: We'd be happy to escort you back to Federation space.
SULU: Very generous of you, but we can manage.
KANG [on viewscreen]: I insist.
SULU: Actually, an escort would be welcome. We'd hate to lose our way again.
KANG [on viewscreen]: Bring your ship about, bearing one eight one, mark two.
SULU: Nice to see you again, Kang.
(Transmission ends.)
VALTANE: Captain Sulu?
SULU: Man your station, Lieutenant. We're not giving up just yet. Helm, come about. Tactical status.
VALTANE: They have their forward disruptors trained on us, sir.
SULU: Ensign Tuvok, what is the composition of this nebula?
TUVOK: Primarily oxygen and argon, with traces of theta-xenon, fluorine and sirillium gas.
SULU: Sirillium? That's a highly combustible substance, isn't it?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
SULU: Is there any way we could ignite the sirillium?
TUVOK: If we modulated a positron beam to a subspace frequency, it would trigger a thermochemical reaction in the sirillium.
SULU: Like tossing a match into a pool of gasoline. Would their shields withstand the blast?
TUVOK: Yes, but their sensors and tactical systems would be disrupted for several seconds.
SULU: That's all the time we need. Tuvok, modulate a positron beam and stand by. We'll ignite the sirillium the instant we clear the nebula. Helm, prepare to engage maximum warp on my command.
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
SULU: All hands, this is the Captain. Secure stations and batten down the hatches.
TUVOK: The positron beam is charged and ready.
SULU: On my mark, Ensign.
VALTANE: We're clearing the nebula.
SULU: Mister Tuvok, light the match.
(Whoomph! Kang's ship is sent tumbling by the exploding gas.)
VALTANE: The Klingon ship's been disabled. They're not pursuing, sir.
SULU: Helm, set a course for Kronos. Engage. Commander Rand, I want you
VALTANE: Sir, long-range sensors are detecting three Klingon battle cruisers on an intercept course. They're arming torpedoes.
HELMSMAN: Heading, sir?
SULU: Maintain course.
(Boom!)
SULU: Return fire!
VALTANE: They've knocked out our targeting scanners.
SULU: Switch to manual!
TUVOK: Mister Valtane, there's a rupture in the plasma conduit behind your console. Get away from that station.
VALTANE: One more second.
TUVOK: Dmitri, you must
(Valtane's station explodes.)
TUVOK: Bridge to sickbay. Medical emergency.
VALTANE: Tuvok.

[Precipice]

GIRL: Tuvok! Help! Don't let me fall! No!

[Sickbay]

KES: Doctor, what's happening?
EMH: Their memory engrams are destabilising. Something must be going wrong with the mind-meld. I'm going to bring them out of it.
KES: It's not working.
EMH: Their neural patterns appear to be locked together. I can't break the meld. The damage to his synaptic patterns is accelerating. At this rate, he'll be brain dead in twenty minutes. Get me a cortical stimulator!

[Excelsior bridge]

JANEWAY: I saw her again, Tuvok. The girl. When Valtane died just now, it seemed to cause the memory to resurface. What is it?
TUVOK: Something's gone wrong with the mind-meld.
SULU: (to Janeway) Who the hell are you? Intruder alert! Get Security up here.
JANEWAY: What's happening? Why can he see me?
SULU: I asked you a question. Who are you, and what are you doing on my ship?
TUVOK: (to Janeway) It's an indication that the rate of deterioration in my brain has increased. At advanced stages of a t'lokan schism, memories and thought processes become distorted and confused.
SULU: Ensign. Do you know this woman?
TUVOK: (to Janeway) I will break the meld, Captain.
JANEWAY: No, don't. I think we're getting close to something. Everything seems to be centred around the death of Valtane.
RAND: Direct hit on the port bow. Shields down to twenty percent. Losing atmosphere in decks five, six and seven.
SULU: I'll reroute auxiliary power to structural integrity.
JANEWAY: Maybe something happened in that moment between the two of you, some detail you aren't remembering. I want you to try and replay those events one more time.
TUVOK: I will try. But I must point out that if my neural structures collapse during the meld, you will suffer brain damage as well.
JANEWAY: I understand.
SULU: Take those two to the brig.

[Excelsior turbolift]

TUVOK: Captain, if we replay those events and they see you, it will disrupt the memory again.
JANEWAY: Then we've got to find a way to make me inconspicuous.

[Gamma shift crew quarters]

RAND: All right, gamma shift. Time to defend the Federation against gaseous anomalies. How are you, Ensign? (to Janeway) Who are you?
(Tuvok neck-pinches Rand.)
JANEWAY: We could have just asked her.
TUVOK: Asking female officers for their clothing could lead to misunderstanding.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH places a blinkie on Tuvok's forehead.)
EMH: I've programmed a cortical stimulator to emit thoron radiation. We'll bombard his telepathic cortex. That should be enough to terminate the meld. We'll begin with a twenty kilodyne burst of five second duration on my mark. Now. It's working. Their neural patterns are starting to separate. My God!
KES: What is it?
EMH: That's Tuvok's memory engram. That's the Captain's. But this red pattern seems to be another engram.
KES: A third memory engram. How's that possible?
EMH: It's not. Which means it can't really be an engram. From the neurochemical modulation, I'd say it's something masquerading as an engram, the way viruses sometimes mimic certain blood factors to avoid being destroyed by antibodies.
KES: So you're saying it's a virus.
EMH: I think so. The thoron radiation must have caused it to manifest itself. Increasing the radiation levels should destroy it. Go to forty kilodynes, ten second burst. Now.

[Excelsior bridge]

VALTANE: The Klingon ship's been disabled, sir. They're no longer pursuing.
SULU: Helm, set a course for Kronos. Engage. Who's at Communications?
VALTANE: Commander Rand is supposed to be on duty, sir.
SULU: Where is she?
VALTANE: Sir, long-range sensors are detecting three Klingon battle cruisers on an intercept course. They're arming torpedoes.
SULU: Maintain course.
(Boom!)
SULU: Return fire!
VALTANE: They've knocked out our targeting scanners, sir.
SULU: Switch to manual!
TUVOK: Mister Valtane, there's a rupture in the plasma conduit behind your console. Get away from that station.
VALTANE: One more second.
TUVOK: Dmitri, you must
(Boom!)
JANEWAY: It's about to happen. Try to remember every detail about the next few seconds. Concentrate.
VALTANE: Tuvok.
GIRL [OC]: Help me!

[Precipice]

GIRL: Help me, Tuvok!

[Excelsior bridge]

JANEWAY: I saw her, Tuvok. I saw the girl. Stay with it.
TUVOK: I am trying, but my mind is weakening.
JANEWAY: This is our last chance. Take us to the precipice. Concentrate. Take us to the girl.

[Sickbay]

EMH: It's working. The mind-meld is almost broken and the radiation appears to be killing the virus. Increase thoron levels to
(Beep!)
EMH: The virus is migrating. It's embedding itself in the captain's brain. Cortical stimulator!

[Precipice]

GIRL: Kathryn! Help me, Kathryn, please! Don't let go. Don't let me fall. No!

[Sickbay]

EMH: Programme a fifty kilodyne burst, five second duration on my mark. Now.

[Precipice]

GIRL: Help me, Tuvok!

[Sickbay]

EMH: The virus protein structures are breading down. It's dying. Increase thoron radiation to eighty kilodynes, fifteen seconds. Now.

[Precipice]

GIRL: Help me, Dmitri, please! Don't let go. Don't let me fall.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Again.

[Precipice]

(This time it is a boy in a baseball cap with a big gold D.)
GIRL: Don't let me fall! No!
(An African child.)
GIRL: No!
(An Asian girl.)
GIRL: No!
(Middle Eastern.)
GIRL: No!
(Stone age.)
GIRL: No!

[Sickbay]

(The mind meld is broken. Later, molecular scan 1105 tell the story.)
EMH: It's clearly a viral parasite of some kind but its origin and genome classification are not on record.
KES: We were able to kill it using thoron radiation.
JANEWAY: What do you know about it?
EMH: The virus thrives on peptides generated in the brain. It evades the body's immune system by disguising itself as a memory engram.
KES: Apparently the parasite used the childhood memory of a falling girl as camouflage.
EMH: Creating a false memory so traumatic that the mind would repress it. And that's where it would live in person after person, hiding in a part of the brain that conscious mind would want to avoid at all costs.
JANEWAY: When it sensed the death of the host, it would leave to find another.
TUVOK: That's why it migrated from Valtane to me.
KES: What about the girl? Did she ever really exist, or did the organism invent the memory?
EMH: Memory is a tricky thing. If it was a real event, it's been buried and copied and twisted so many times, there's no way to tell what really happened.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I'm curious. Did the Excelsior ever save Kirk and McCoy?
TUVOK: Not directly. We were forced to retreat back to Federation space. As usual, Captain Kirk provided his own means of escape. But we did play a pivotal role at the subsequent battle at Khitomer.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, if I didn't know you better, I'd say you miss those days on the Excelsior.
TUVOK: On the contrary. I do not experience feelings of nostalgia. But there are times when I think back to those days of meeting Kirk, Spock and the others, and I am pleased that I was part of it.
JANEWAY: In a funny way, I feel like I was a part of it too.
TUVOK: Then perhaps you can be nostalgic for both of us.


S3 E3
The Chute
Stardate: 50156.2
Original Airdate: Sept 18, 1996

[Akritirian prison]
(A klaxon sounds, attracting raggedy men from various cubby holes.)
MAN [OC]: New man coming!
MAN 2 [OC]: New prisoner.
MAN [OC]: Get out of my way!
MAN 2 [OC]: There is a new man coming.
MAN 3 [OC]: Here he comes.
MAN 2 [OC]: Hurry up.
MAN [OC]: New prisoner!
MAN 2 [OC]: Hey, something's coming.
(An iris opens at the top of a chute and a person slides down, landing with a thump. Laughter from the assembled men, who suggest taking his boots or killing him. A grizzled man pushes through the crowd.)
PIT: Get out of my way.
(He pulls Harry Kim, for it is he, to his feet. A fight starts, and Kim manages to get in a few punches of his own before he is kicked to the ground.)
MAN: Kill him, kill him.
(A fair haired man intervenes.)
KIM: Tom.
(Paris punches Kim in the stomach. He goes down.)
PIT: Nobody touch him. He's mine.
(Pit starts to drag Kim away by the foot.)
KIM: Wait. This is a mistake. I don't belong here!
PIT: You don't? Well, I'll just take you home then. All right?
PARIS: This one's mine.
PIT: I say he's not.
PARIS: He's the reason that I'm here. He was my partner in a bombing. We killed forty seven patrollers at Akritiri. Forty seven! And then this scum confessed to the Tribunal and gave them my name. So I'm telling you again, he's mine.
PIT: I'm keeping him.
(Paris gets a knife to Pit's throat.)
PIT: Take him. For now.

[Paris' hovel]

KIM: Did you have to hit me so hard?
PARIS: Trust me. Around here, you don't want anybody thinking you're soft.
KIM: Thanks for the tip. Is there any food?
PARIS: I haven't had anything to eat since I got here.
KIM: How long is that?
PARIS: Couple of days. Some shore leave, huh? What happened to you after they split us up?
KIM: The Akritirians interrogated me. When I wouldn't confess to the bombing, they dragged me in front of a judge. He said you'd already confessed for the both of us, then he pronounced me guilty.
PARIS: That's exactly what happened to me. Then they must have drugged me, because the next thing I knew, I woke up at the bottom of the chute to that welcoming party.
KIM: We've got to explain to somebody that there's been a mistake.
PARIS: Who did you have in mind?
KIM: A guard, the warden.
PARIS: Haven't seen anybody like that.
KIM: A prison without guards.
PARIS: The other inmates say this place is three hundred metres underground. Maybe the Akritirians figure guards aren't necessary.
(Kim holds out a cup.)
KIM: Can I have some more?
PARIS: What do you think this is, a hotel? There isn't any more!
KIM: Take it easy.
PARIS: I'm sorry. I'm really starting to get edgy. I think it's the clamp.
KIM: The what?
(Paris shows him a small metal object embedded in the back of his skull.)
PARIS: That's what the prisoners call it. Everybody has one.
KIM: What is it?
PARIS: I'm guessing it's some kind of synaptic stimulator. Anyway, it's affecting my nervous system. I've been getting jumpier ever since I got here, not to mention this thing itches like crazy.
KIM: What do you think it's for?
PARIS: Maybe it's some kind of torture device.
KIM: We could try taking them out.
PARIS: No! I saw someone try it. It killed him! What we have to do is find a way out of this place.
KIM: Let's get something straight first.
PARIS: What?
KIM: The next time you take a swing at me, I'm hitting back.
(The klaxon sounds.)
KIM: What's that?
PARIS: Another prisoner, maybe.
MAN [OC]: Food! Food!
PARIS: Join me for dinner?

[Akritirian prison]

(Brown slabs of something are slid down the chute. There is much scrabbling and stamping on hands to get as much as possible as quickly as possible.) 
MAN: Oh, there's got to be more!
(He reaches to the iris and gets zapped. He falls back. Another prisoner gets his throat slit for the food he had collected. His murderer is very casual about it all.)
ZIO: I don't think he was going to eat it anyway, do you?
KIM: He's dead.
PARIS: I think I've lost my appetite.

Captain's log, stardate 50156.2. After seventy two hours, Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim are still missing, and I'm quickly losing patience with the Akritirian authorities. They continue to deny us access to the surface, and they've yet to confirm whether our crewmen were killed in the bombing.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Anything?
TUVOK: I have completed another full sensor sweep, including multispectral subsurface scan. I still can not locate their life signs or their comm. badges.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Ambassador Liria is hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm only in a mood for good news today, Ambassador.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid I can't oblige.
JANEWAY: Are you saying they're dead?
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: No, they're very much alive.
JANEWAY: Then where are they?
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Your men have been convicted of the terrorist bombing at the Laktivia recreational facility, which resulted in the death of forty seven off-duty patrollers.
JANEWAY: I assure you, Ambassador, my people had nothing to do with this attack.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: We found chemical traces of the explosive used in the bombing on their hands and clothing.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure the same could be said of anyone who was near the explosion. It's hardly enough evidence for a conviction.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: The explosive was trilithium based. There is no source of trilithium anywhere in our system. So, you can imagine our surprise when our investigation revealed that your ship is powered by dilithium, which our scientists tell us is convertible into trilithium. We have long suspected that the so-called Open Sky Terrorists had off-world collaborators. Now we know who they are.
TUVOK: Captain, two Akritirian ships are approaching at bearing two seven one, mark six four.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Prepare your ship for inspection, Captain.
JANEWAY: If it will help confirm our innocence, I'll consider it. But first I want to know where my people are being held, and I want to talk to them immediately.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Communication with inmates is not permitted.
JANEWAY: If you want my co-operation, Ambassador, you're going to have to do better than that.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Perhaps you've misunderstood me. Let me clarify our position. Your vessel is being impounded. You and your crew are under arrest. Prepare to be boarded.
TUVOK: Captain, their ships are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, raise shields. Mister Chakotay, take the conn. I'd like to resolve this situation peacefully, Ambassador, but let me clarify my position. I will not allow this ship to be boarded.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: That, Captain, is an error in judgement.
(The two small ships open fire, rocking Voyager.)
TUVOK: Captain, should I return fire?
JANEWAY: That's not going to help us get Tom and Harry back. We need to regroup. Get us out of here, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Paris' hovel]

KIM: What took you so long? I've been back at least half an hour.
PARIS: You're starting to feel it, aren't you?
KIM: I guess I am.
PARIS: It gets worse all the time. We have to fight it. Let's focus on something positive.
KIM: How about a seven course dinner? I suppose you didn't find any food.
PARIS: Er, well, I found close to fifty good citizens in this quaint little community, but not a grocer among them.
KIM: I take it that's a no.
PARIS: Yeah. But if we ever do get our hands on some food, I found a lovely spot for a picnic.
KIM: Great. All we need are the Delaney sisters and we could make a day of it.
PARIS: So how about you? Come across anything interesting in your travels?
KIM: If you mean an escape route, I ran into nothing but solid walls.
PARIS: Me too. As far as I can see, the only way to the surface is that chute in the main chamber.
KIM: Question is, how do we get into it without getting fried by that forcefield? You saw what happened to the man who reached inside.
PARIS: That's where this might come in handy.
(A piece of metal piping.)
PARIS: I thought if we could get our hands on some loose wiring, you might be able to use it to rig a device that would short out the forcefield long enough for us to get into the tube.
KIM: It's worth a try.
PARIS: Yeah. Now if we could only figure out a way to short out these implants, we'd be all set.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: There's no indication they followed us.
JANEWAY: I guess they're more interested in getting rid of us than finding out the truth.
TORRES: We've got to go back for Harry and Tom.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.
TUVOK: We have no information as to their whereabouts. And if we return to Akritirian space, we are sure to encounter further hostilities.
JANEWAY: Tuvok is right. Let's concentrate on proving Harry and Tom's innocence.
TORRES: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: We know the explosive was trilithium based. If we find the source of that trilithium, it may lead us to the real bombers.
CHAKOTAY: Our long range scans indicate that Liria was right. There's no trilithium in this sector.
TORRES: What about paralithium? It's used as a fuel for some ion based propulsion systems, and it can be converted into trilithium.
JANEWAY: Review our sensor logs of ships entering and leaving Akritirian space during the time we were in orbit. If anybody's using paralithium for fuel, I want to find out who they are and where they went.

[Akritirian prison]

(By the chute. Kim is wrapping bits of wire around the metal pipe.)
KIM: Come on, come on, come on.
PARIS: Take it easy. You'll get it.
KIM: Damn! I can't think! I can't concentrate!
PARIS: Okay. Okay, concentrate on this. Crown roast of lamb, with a bed of wild rice, and a 2296 Chateau Lafitte Rothschild at the real Sandrine's.
KIM: Or how about shrimp with fettran sauce, flambé noodles and fudge ripple pudding.
PARIS: Good one. Okay. A couple of barbecued T-bone steaks with baked Risan beans and cherry pie for dessert. Let's see you top that one.
KIM: Right now, I'm so hungry I could eat a bowl of Neelix's leola root stew.
PARIS: Me too. Never thought I'd say that.
KIM: I'm ready to give it a try. So far, so good.
(Kim touches the forcefield with the pipe, and gets thrown backwards.)
PARIS: Are you okay?
PIT: What are you doing?
PARIS: Just out for a little stroll. (to Kim) Move it!
PIT: What's that?
KIM: A pipe.
PIT: Let's see it.
PARIS: Come on. I'd really recommend that you stay out of my way.
PIT: You should have thought of that before you took him.
(Other prisoners grab Kim as Pit slashes at Paris with his knife. Paris fights back.)
KIM: Come on, Tom.
(Paris knocks Pit down, and gets stabbed by another prisoner.)
KIM: Tom!
(Kim breaks free and goes to Paris' help, swinging the metal pipe.)
KIM: Back off! Back off! Back off! Back off! Hang on. I'm getting you out of here.
ZIO: No fight, no fight. If he doesn't bleed to death, he'll die from infection.
KIM: We've got to get him to a doctor.
ZIO: Of course. We'll call an emergency vehicle and rush him to a hospital.
(Kim pushes Zio away and carries Paris off.)
ZIO: Hey! What do you want for the dead man's boots?
(On the way to the hovel.)
KIM: You can make it. Just a few more steps and we'll be back to the shelter.
PARIS: Home sweet home. Harry.
KIM: Yeah.
PARIS: I'm hurt pretty bad.
KIM: I'll take care of it.
PARIS: Promise me something.
KIM: What?
PARIS: If things get worse, if it comes down to making a choice, don't worry about me. Take care of yourself. Do we have a deal?
KIM: Quiet.
(A man comes out of their hovel.)
KIM: Hey! What are you doing in there?
RIB: Get out.
KIM: This place is ours.
RIB: Get out! Get out! Get out!
(There are several prisoners living there now.)

[Zio's hovel]

(Zio is writing on scraps of paper.)
KIM: Okay, here's the deal. My boots for some clean cloth, a litre of water, two of those food cakes and my friend gets to stay in there until he's better.
ZIO: I don't take in boarders.
KIM: What about the rest of it?
ZIO: I don't like the colour.
PARIS: Come on. Let's go. This guy's not going to help us.
KIM: Just tell me what you want for the food and the bandages, okay?
ZIO: That pipe you were working with interests me.
KIM: I can't trade the pipe.
ZIO: Then I guess we don't have a deal. Now move on. You're blocking my light.
KIM: I'll take you with me.
ZIO: Take me where?
KIM: I know a way out of this place.
ZIO: I've been in here six years. I've never heard of a way out.
KIM: The chute.
ZIO: Anybody that tries to get in there gets hit with an energy pulse.
KIM: With this pipe, I can disable the forcefield. With a little luck, we can make it to the surface. What are you staring at?
ZIO: I'm trying to figure out if you're a liar, or if the clamp has already made you crazy.
KIM: Neither. And I'll prove it to you.
ZIO: You stand your ground. I like that.
KIM: Then we have a deal?
ZIO: Just remember one thing. If you're lying, I'll kill you.

Captain's log, supplemental. So far we've located three ships with paralithium plasma emissions, but none of them appears to have produced explosives. We're currently in pursuit of a fourth vessel.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We're in hailing range of the Akritirian freighter, Captain.
TUVOK: I'm only reading two life signs aboard.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager to the captain of the Akritirian cargo vessel.
(A young man and woman appear on the viewscreen. The man speaks.)
VEL [on viewscreen]: I'm the captain of this vessel. What do you want?
JANEWAY: Two of my crew members were convicted by the Akritirians of a terrorist bombing. We're trying to prove their innocence, and we have reason to believe a ship like yours, which uses paralithium for fuel, might have been involved in the production of the explosives.
PIRI [on viewscreen]: Let's get out of here.
VEL [on viewscreen]: Quiet. (to Janeway) This is a cargo vessel.
JANEWAY: Then you won't mind if a few of my crew members come aboard to have a look around.
VEL [on viewscreen]: Not if they don't mind having their throats cut.
JANEWAY: There's no need to be abrupt.
(Transmission ends.)
CHAKOTAY: I guess you're not the only captain who doesn't want their ship boarded.
TORRES: Captain, I'm picking up residual traces of trilithium. They're faint but they're there. I think we may have found our bomb makers.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, send a security detail to Transporter room two. Lieutenant Torres, beam the two of them aboard and tractor their ship into the shuttle bay.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Conference room]

VEL: You have no right to hold us.
JANEWAY: My people have been accused of aiding a terrorist group called Open Sky. What do you know about them?
PIRI: They're not terrorists. They're patriots. One day they'll lead the legitimate government of our people.
VEL: We don't have to answer any of their questions, Piri.
JANEWAY: Sounds to me like your young friend here sympathises with these patriots.
VEL: She's not my friend. She's my sister. And our political views are none of your business.
JANEWAY: I don't know much about your world, but I do know that my people are being held for a crime they didn't commit and I'm going to do everything in my power to get them out. Do you understand that?
TUVOK: We have confirmed that explosives were indeed produced aboard their ship.
JANEWAY: Escort them to the brig.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: And have Mister Chakotay lay in a course for the Akritirian border.
VEL: Let my sister go. She didn't have anything to do with the bombing and she's only fourteen.
PIRI: Prison doesn't scare
VEL: Quiet, Piri. Please, you don't know what you're saying. Nobody ever gets out of prison on Akritiri. They'll just let her rot in there for the rest of her life.
JANEWAY: I admire your desire to protect your sister but, it's not really up to me, is it?
PIRI: Tell them what we know.
JANEWAY: Tell me what?
VEL: Piri, don't.
PIRI: Our brigade found out where the maximum security detention facility is located.
VEL: My sister has quite a vivid imagination.
PIRI: With this ship, you can attack the prison and get your people out.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. That's not how we do things where I come from.
PIRI: Coward.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, see that they get a bath and a hot meal.

[Zio's hovel]

PARIS: I don't trust that guy, Harry.
KIM: I can handle him.
PARIS: Just watch your back, okay?
KIM: Try to get some rest.
PARIS: Remember our deal?
KIM: What deal?
PARIS: If it comes down to it, you're going to save yourself, right? If you see a chance, just go. Don't come back for me.
KIM: I think the clamp must really be starting to make you crazy.
PARIS: I'm serious, Harry.
ZIO: I'm getting tired of waiting.
KIM: I've got to go.
PARIS: Harry.

[Akritirian prison]

(Kim is working on a panel by the chute, and making sparks fly. Zio appears to be meditating.)
KIM: Damn it!
ZIO: Don't fight it. Use it.
KIM: How do I do that? I feel like there's a million fire ants in my brain.
ZIO: Good. Make them work for you.
KIM: How?
ZIO: Fire ants sound vicious. Imagine them as your army moving in a vast wave to conquer your enemy. There's a massive struggle going on inside you, a battle to the death between you and the clamp. You have to use whatever force you can to defeat it.
KIM: I'd rather use my energy to work on getting out of here.
ZIO: When I first got here, I assumed the clamp was just a refined form of torture to make our prison stay that much more arduous. Gradually, I began to understand it more fully. It's all right here in my manifesto. My insights, my reasoning, my evidence. It's an experiment. They're studying us like animals. Pitting us against each other to find out what happens. You can see that, can't you?
KIM: I guess so.
ZIO: The greatest threat, of course, would be if we started to cooperate with each other, so they prevented that. But there had to be more to it than that. And the longer I was in here, the more I knew it was my job to figure it out. That's the reason I was put here. And eventually, it came to me as though a fireball had exploded in my mind. And the realisation gave me a power over the others. They don't come near me any more. They're afraid of me because I know the truth. Well? Don't you want to know what it is? What is the ultimate purpose of the clamp?
KIM: Okay.
ZIO: It's inspired. Brilliant. It's a method for controlling the prison population. We kill each other off.
KIM: Sure. Whatever you say.
ZIO: So you must enter into the battle. If you let the clamp control you, you'll end up like that crazy old man that took over your shelter. But if you learn to control it, you'll survive. Like me.
(Kim slides a wire into position.)
KIM: Yes. I plan to be out of here before it even becomes an issue. Go ahead. Touch it.
(The chute forcefield is neutralised. Zio pushes open the iris and Kim leads the way up the chute.)

[Top of the chute]

ZIO: What do you see?
KIM: Some kind of hatch.
(Kim wedges himself safely and starts rubbing at the hatch.)
ZIO: What do you see? Are we at the surface?
(Kim is cleaning the grime off the inside of a spacestation's porthole.)

[Zio's hovel]

PARIS: Harry.
KIM: How are you feeling?
PARIS: Er, I was dreaming about Megan Delaney.
KIM: Next time I'll try not to wake you.
PARIS: The chute. You made it in? Did you find a way out?
KIM: Not yet, but we're very close. It's just a matter of time, so you've got to hang in there, okay?
PARIS: What, what happened to me?
KIM: Easy, Tom. You got stabbed, remember?
PARIS: Who, who did it?
KIM: One of the prisoners.
PARIS: No. No, it was you.
KIM: I'm trying to change your bandage.
PARIS: No, get away from me!
KIM: Please!
PARIS: Get away from me!
KIM: I'm trying to help you! Tom! Tom, give me the pipe. We need it to get out of here, remember? It's okay. Let me take it.
PARIS: Harry. What's happening to me?
KIM: You're going to be okay.
PARIS: Harry?
KIM: Yeah?
PARIS: Don't leave me here.
KIM: Close your eyes.

[Outside Zio's hovel]

(Later -)
ZIO: Sleep well?
KIM: No.
ZIO: How about your friend? Is he dead yet?
KIM: Shut up! The chute leads to a docking port, right? Some kind of ship must come to drop off food, drop off new prisoners. So maybe we could get aboard the ship.
ZIO: It's getting the best of you.
KIM: I know we could do it.
ZIO: You think they're just going to open the hatch and ask us if we'd like a ride home?
KIM: We'd have the element of surprise.
ZIO: And they'd have the pulse guns.
KIM: If we could hold them off, distract them, just for a few minutes, I could establish our location, get a message to Voyager, and they could get us out of here. We'll need weapons.
ZIO: I've never let anyone see this, but I'm going to let you read my manifesto. It'll teach you how to control the clamp.
KIM: I don't want to read your crazy manifesto.
ZIO: Take it. Learn everything I know.
(Kim knocks the papers out of Zio's hand.)
KIM: Now, are you going to help me or not?
ZIO: If I were like the others, I'd kill you. But I don't lose control. That's the difference between me and you.

[Akritirian prison]

KIM: Listen! Listen to me, everybody! This is important. I've got something to say. Something you'll want to hear. It's what you've been waiting for.
PIT: What the hell do you want?
KIM: I've found a way out of here.
PIT: There's no way out.
KIM: There is! Through the chute! I've been inside! Listen! We have to work together! They'd like us all to kill each other, but we have to cooperate. If we do, we can get out of here.
PIT: If you've been in the chute, where does it lead?
ALL: Yeah! Yeah!
KIM: Space. It's the truth! We can escape, if we work together!
(Someone throws a missile at Kim, that hits him on the head.)

[Zio's hovel]

(Paris is pulling the wires off the pipe.)
KIM: What the hell are you doing?
PARIS: Stay back.
KIM: You've ruined it! You
PARIS: It's mine! Mine!
(They struggle for the pipe. Kim starts banging Paris' head against the wall, then finally raises the pipe to smash it down on him.)
ZIO: Go ahead. Finish him.
(Kim drops the pipe and runs out.)

[Outside Zio's hovel]

ZIO: You wanted to kill him, didn't you?
KIM: He's my best friend!
ZIO: No, that's where you're wrong. He's too far gone to be your friend. All he is now is a burden.
KIM: That's not true!
ZIO: He eats your food. He ruined your device. He's given in to the clamp. You've got to get rid of him before he brings you down with him.
KIM: Quiet!
ZIO: You've got a chance to make something of your life in here, but as long as that carcass is in my hut, we'll never be able to go on to more important things.
KIM: What the hell are you talking about?
ZIO: We've got to disseminate the manifesto. Gather our followers. Train them.
KIM: You're insane.
ZIO: You want my protection? You want to live under my roof? Get rid of him.
KIM: I don't need your protection!
ZIO: How long do you think you'll last against Pit and the others without me looking out for you?
(Zio offers Kim a bloodied, chipped, knife.)
ZIO: Go ahead, take it. Think of what a relief it will be not to have that responsibility, and be free of his ranting.
(Kim takes the knife.)
KIM: I'm not a killer.
ZIO: Do you want to survive in here? You'd better learn to be.
KIM: If that's what it takes to stay alive, then I'd rather die.
(He drops the knife.)
ZIO: Get out now. And take him with you, or I will kill him.

[Bridge]

LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Unless you've decided to relinquish control of your vessel, Captain, I suggest that you do not proceed across our border.
JANEWAY: We've captured the ship and crew responsible for the bombing at the Laktivia canteen.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: I see.
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to trade them for the immediate and unconditional release of Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Your crewmen have already been tried and convicted.
JANEWAY: Are you saying those convictions can't be reversed? No matter what new evidence is brought to light?
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: You are correct.
JANEWAY: That is an outrageous policy.
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: I assure you, it has proved to be a most effective deterrent. Good day, Captain.
(Transmission ends.)
CHAKOTAY: So much for negotiating.
TUVOK: What should we do with the prisoners?
JANEWAY: Bring Vel to my ready room. Now.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I want the location and shield codes of the maximum security detention facility.
VEL: What's wrong? the Akritirians didn't agree to your terms?
JANEWAY: No, as a matter of fact. But I suspect you will.
VEL: And what makes you so sure?
JANEWAY: Because if you don't, you and your sister are going to spend the rest of your lives in prison.
VEL: I'll take you to the prison. And I'll get you in. But there are members of Open Sky in there and I want to get them out too.
JANEWAY: I don't think you understand the way this works. You tell me what I want to know, and after I get my people back, I let you and your sister go.
VEL: That's not good enough.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, inform the Akritirians that we're ready to turn the prisoners over.
VEL: All right.
TUVOK: Crewman Foster, take the prisoner to Commander Chakotay. He will upload the coordinates and codes.
(Ms Foster takes Vel onto the bridge.)
TUVOK: May I ask how you propose to get past the Akritirian patrols? No doubt they will attack as soon as Voyager crosses the border.
JANEWAY: That's exactly why the rescue team won't be aboard Voyager.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: If I'm not mistaken, Mister Neelix's ship is still in our shuttle bay.
TUVOK: Yes. However, Mister Neelix's vessel has extremely limited combat capabilities.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to be very careful, won't we?

[Akritirian prison]

(Pit and Kim are fighting over an unconscious Paris.)
PIT: I want his clothes, and I want his shoes!
KIM: This man is my friend. Nobody touches him!
PIT: Back off! You won't have to get hurt.
(Klaxon.)
MAN [OC]: It's the chute!
PIT: New prisoner!
(Captain Janeway slides down the chute, phaser rifle at the ready.)
MAN: I got him!
(She shoots two prisoners simultaneously. Tuvok slides down.)
TUVOK: Hands on your heads.
JANEWAY: Do it! Now!
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Lieutenant Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead.
NEELIX [OC]: We've got company.

[Neelix's ship]

NEELIX: Two Akritirian patrol ships on an intercept course. I'm not sure how long I can hold them off.
TUVOK [OC]: We are moving as quickly as we can, Mister Neelix.

[Akritirian prison]

KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: Where's Tom?
KIM: He needs help.
(More security men have arrived.)
TUVOK: Go.

[Neelix's ship]

PATROL [OC]: Akritirian Patrol to alien vessel. Disengage immediately.
NEELIX: Akritirian Patrol. Er, am I in Akritirian space? Oh, dear. I, I thought this was the Heva Seven refuelling port. You wouldn't by any chance be able to recommend a respectable establishment where I could have my navigational array repaired?
PATROL [OC]: Disengage immediately. This is your final warning.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Neelix. Everyone's aboard.
NEELIX: Acknowledged. I know it's a little cramped back there, so if there's anything I can do to make you more comfortable.
JANEWAY [OC]: Neelix, just get us out of here.
NEELIX: Of course, Captain. Talaxian vessel to Akritirian Patrol. My apologies for the little mix-up. I'll departing now as per your orders.
(Neelix undocks from the space station.)
PATROL [OC]: Power down your engines and prepare to be boarded.
NEELIX: Er, what was that, Patrol? That last message was garbled.
(Bang! Neelix flies his ship away very quickly.)

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: I've always thought of my piloting skills as modest at best, and the conditions were extremely dangerous. Still, I did outmanoeuvre those Akritirians, didn't I?
PARIS: You did a terrific job, Neelix.
JANEWAY: I agree. Excellent piloting.
NEELIX: I'm glad to hear you say that, Captain, because I've been thinking. Until Tom here gets back on his feet, perhaps I could, er, try my hand at conn for a while.
EMH: That won't be necessary. Lieutenant Paris is just fine, thanks to excellent doctoring. I've finished analysing these implants, and you'll be happy to know that the treatment I've provided will successfully counteract their effect on you.
JANEWAY: What exactly was the effect?
EMH: My readings indicate that the implants are designed to stimulate the production of acetylcholine in the hypothalamus.
KES: That would explain the agitation.
EMH: Hmm. Acetylcholine is a brain chemical common to the neural structures of most humanoids. Essentially, it helps stimulate one's aggressive tendencies.
KIM: Zio was right.
PARIS: Come on, Harry. We're overdue for that steak dinner.
KIM: I guess so.
PARIS: What do you mean, you guess so? It's the thought of that dinner that kept us going.

[Corridor]

PARIS: So, what do you think? Er, baked potato, a big mound of deep fried onion rings.
KIM: Tom
PARIS: Maybe, maybe, some grilled mushrooms.
KIM: Tom, listen to me. I, I almost killed you.
PARIS: What are you saying? You're the one that kept me alive.
KIM: I was ready to hit you with the pipe. Don't you remember?
PARIS: You want to know what I remember? Someone saying, this man is my friend. Nobody touches him. I'll remember that for a long time. So, what do you say we blow a week's worth of replicator rations?
KIM: So what's for dessert?
PARIS: Cherry pie. Don't you remember?
KIM: What about the fudge ripple pudding?
PARIS: Ah! Yes.


S3 E4
The Swarm
Stardate: 50252.3
Original Airdate: September 25 1996

Helmsman's log, stardate 50252.3. While Voyager takes on supplies, Lieutenant Torres and I are investigating some intermittent sensor readings we picked up this morning.
[Shuttlecraft]

TORRES: We've been out here almost 5 hours and we haven't seen any sign of those energy signatures. Isn't it time to admit they were nothing more than galactic background noise?
PARIS: I want to keep looking a while longer, just to be sure.
TORRES: Ah!
PARIS: What's wrong?
TORRES: Cramp. Klingon bodies weren't meant to sit in a cockpit for five hours at a stretch.
PARIS: You have a big dinner date or something?
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: Well, you've been angling to get back to Voyager for about two hours now. Just thought maybe there was a reason? Like Ensign Bristow.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Oh, I've noticed he's been making any excuse to hang around engineering. Around you.
TORRES: Freddie Bristow is a child.
PARIS: Oh, really. He looks like a grown up to me. Tall, good-looking and I hear he plays a mean set of Pareses Squares.
TORRES: I played one game with him, and I whipped him. Look, he has a crush on me. I can handle it. Why are you so interested?
PARIS: I'm just curious how someone with Klingon blood seems to live the life of a tabern monk.
TORRES: Lieutenant, that is none of your business.
PARIS: Well, if you ever have a free evening, I have a holodeck programme you might enjoy. Sailing on Lake Como?
TORRES: I'd rather take my chances with Freddie Bristow. Those energy signatures are back.
PARIS: We must have crossed into a tachyon field.
TORRES: What's that?
PARIS: A ship has locked onto our hull.
TORRES: Why didn't we detect it?
PARIS: The tachyon field must have disrupted our sensors. I'm Lieutenant Tom Paris.

[Holodeck - Parisian cafe, 1830s]

EMH: O soave fanciulla, O dolce viso di mite circonfuso alba lunar, in te ravviso il sogno ch'io vorrei sempre sognar!
DIVA: Ah, tu sol comandi, amor
EMH: Computer, pause playback. Excuse me but your entrance was early. You're rushing the tempo.
DIVA: I am not rushing, you are lagging behind like a tired donkey.
EMH: I assure you I have studied the finest recordings of this opera. Caruso and Galli-Curci, Pavarotti and Freni, Sural and T'Pena of Vulcan. My tempo is accurate.
DIVA: Galli-Curci, Freni, T'Pena. They're all fallite, mere dust balls. Solo niente, they are nothing. Giuseppina Pantangeli, the greatest soprano living of the 22nd century transcends them all, and conductors take their tempi from me! Capite?
EMH: In this instance they take it from me. I've programmed the orchestral playback.
DIVA: Who allows you to make this choice? You are an amateur, you have no sense of rubato, no rallentando. It's like singing with a computer!
EMH: Madam, I may be an amateur, but I'm also known as a quick study, and as I am in charge of this programme you will do it my way! Shall we try it again. Computer, start playback. O soave fanciulla, O... Stop playback.
DIVA: What now? No e possibile.
EMH: I couldn't remember the words.
DIVA: In all of my career I have never forgotten the lyrics. This is the difference between amateur and professionale.
EMH: Just a momentary lapse, no need to over-react.
DIVA: You cretino non esistete. This is infuriating! I want another partner! I  I volo no subito.
EMH: I'm the one who needs another partner! You've got me so upset I can't sing. Computer, delete
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to the Doctor. We have a medical emergency. Report to sickbay.
EMH: Right away, Captain. A dio, madam. Next time I'll take my chances with Maria Callas. Computer, delete the diva.
DIVA: Imbecille. Pensale la men..

[Sickbay]

EMH: Their nervous system suffered trauma from some type of neuro-electric weapon. It must have been extremely painful.
TORRES: It certainly was.
JANEWAY: Do you know why they attacked you?
TORRES: No idea. They seemed to be trying to communicate with us but we couldn't understand them and then they just lifted their weapons.
EMH: The injuries are treatable. It shouldn't take long.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, send a message on all subspace bands. I want to find out why my people were attacked.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll ask Neelix if he knows anything about these people. Doctor, keep me posted.
EMH: It would help if you didn't fidget so much.
TORRES: I'm really feeling better. Can't I get out of here?
EMH: When you're ready to leave I will tell you.
KES: Doctor, Tom doesn't seem to be responding to the treatment.
EMH: I'll look at him. Where's my retinal imager?
KES: I haven't seen it.
EMH: Did you move it from the instrument tray?
KES: I haven't been near the instrument tray.
EMH: I've just had the most unpleasant encounter with a mad woman on the holodeck. She must have upset me more than I realised. Lieutenant, you're perfectly all right. What are you still doing here?
TORRES: Thank you.
KES: I think he must have suffered some very deep tissue damage. The regenerator isn't helping. Doctor?

[Briefing Room]

TUVOK: I've made numerous hails on wideband subspace. The only response has been a single repeating message.
CHAKOTAY: What's that?
JANEWAY: I'd guess it's a language so unlike ours that the universal translator can't interpret it. Harry, remodulate the translator, see if we can decipher those sounds. Neelix, what can you tell us?
NEELIX: If these people are who I think they are, I can tell you this is very bad news. I've never actually encountered them but from what I've heard I'm glad I didn't. Most ships that enter their space are never heard from again. Some have returned with everyone on board dead. They're a complete mystery. No one knows their name, how many of them there are, what the culture is like. Just that they really don't want people violating their territory.
KIM: If this is any indication of their borders, it's a huge area of space, hundreds of sectors. If we were to go around it it would take months.
CHAKOTAY: I'd say over fifteen months even if we could sustain maximum warp, which we can't.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to tell this crew we're adding another fifteen months to this journey. We'll have to find another option.
TUVOK: If we are not to go around their space the only available option is to go through it.
JANEWAY: Precisely.
KIM: Tom and B'Elanna hit a sensor net as they crossed the border. We have to figure we'll run into it when we try to cross. But there are ways around sensor nets.
CHAKOTAY: They can't possibly have enough ships to patrol a border this size. We could probably find an unguarded section.
TUVOK: Would it affect your decision if I pointed out that encroaching on the territory of an alien species is prohibited by starfleet regulations?
JANEWAY: No, it wouldn't.
TUVOK: Captain, you have managed to surprise me.
JANEWAY: We're a long way from starfleet, Lieutenant. I'm not about to waste 15 months because we've run into a bunch of bullies.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Doctor.
EMH [OC]: Please turn to your emergency medical holographic channel. [on monitor] I'm afraid LieutenantParis suffered greater neurological damage than my initial scan revealed. I'm going to have to perform a motor cortex reconstruction. There's no need to be overly concerned. His condition is not life-threatening. The procedure is a relatively simple one for a skilled physician.
JANEWAY: Very good, Doctor. Keep me informed. All right, I want a plan for crossing that border as quickly and as quietly as possible. We'll reconvene in an hour. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]

EMH: O soave fanciulla, o dolce viso di mite circonfuso alba lunar.
KES: Doctor, I have the cortical analeptics you asked for.
EMH: Good. Fill the hyposprays, we'll begin as soon as I've finished scrubbing.
KES: Did I hear you singing?
EMH: Yes. 'O soave fanciulla'. It's an aria from La Boheme, a truly exquisite opera by Giacomo Puccini, a human composer of the nineteenth century.
KES: I didn't realise you enjoyed music.
EMH: I've recently begun a thorough study of opera. I find it quite satisfying, but I am having difficulty finding a holographic partner for the role of Mimi. All the soprani seem to have the most irritating personalities. These women are arrogant, superior, condescending. I can't imagine anyone behaving that way.
KES: What is it?
EMH: A quiz for you. What is the first step in this procedure?
KES: Establish the axon connections and then test for synaptic potentials.
EMH: Ah, quite right. Very good.
KES: Doctor, what is it?
EMH: We seem to have a small problem. I can't remember how to perform this operation.

EMH: All right. I've repaired the damaged pre-ganglionic fibres in the spinal column.
KES: The final step is to restore the nerve sheath. You'll need the myelin regenerator.
EMH: What is it?
KES: He's going into respiratory arrest!
EMH: What do I do?
KES: Apply an ethorin pulse to stabilise his motor neurons.
EMH: Apply a what?
KES: Vital signs are returning to normal. There, myelin regeneration is complete. What's the synaptic potential reading?
EMH: Synaptic potentials are normal. Autonomic enzymatic systems are functioning.
KES: Very good, Doctor, I think you've done it.

TORRES: The EMH database seems to be experiencing a cascading overload of some kind. Doc's memory circuits are deteriorating.
JANEWAY: We knew the Doctor was never designed to be up and running as much as he has been, but I thought you programmed safety buffers so his circuits wouldn't degrade?
TORRES: I did, and I installed them, but they're breaking down.
EMH: My self diagnostic routines have always indicated that in the event of cascade failure I should simply be re-initialised.
TORRES: That would stop the cascade and allow us to reset your database and personality sub-routines, but
KES: But what?
TORRES: It would restore the original programme. Reset him to the person he was when we first activated him.
JANEWAY: In other words, he'd forget everything that's happened to him over the past two years.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: Doctor, how do you feel about that?
EMH: I can't say I'd like to lose the last two years, but my primary responsibility is the health and welfare of this crew. In my current state I am useless to them. I believe Lieutenant Torres should start the re-initialisation process immediately.
KES: No, wait. Wait, please. We can't just treat the Doctor like he's a computer any more. He's come too far for that. Doctor, please, think about this. You'd be losing so much. Relationships you've developed, our friendship, your sense of being a true member of his crew. All that would be gone.
EMH: I can't put personal concerns over that of the crew.
KES: Look at the experiences you've had since you were activated. You've made friends, learnt how to sing opera. You've even fallen in love. If you lose those memories you won't be the same person. You said you don't know what's causing his memory circuits to fail.
TORRES: Unfortunately no.
KES: So, if you re-initialise without finding out what's wrong the problem could occur again.
TORRES: It's a possibility.
KES: Isn't it a better plan to look for the cause of the problem? If B'Elanna can find it there may be a less radical solution. Tom Paris is stable, he'll be back on duty today. There's no medical crisis at the moment. I can certainly handle all the routine cases in sickbay. Please, let's not just erase him without trying to help him first.
JANEWAY: If a crewmember came down with a debilitating illness you'd do everything in your power to make them well again. I think we owe you nothing less.
TORRES: I'll get started.
KES: Don't be discouraged. I know B'Elanna can find a way.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Captain? I think we've found it. A way to get across the border without being detected.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
KIM: Their sensor net uses a series of interlaced tachyon beams. If we adjust our shields to refract those beams around the ship we can slip across without appearing to have disrupted the net.
JANEWAY: Not bad.
CHAKOTAY: And we've found that this area shows no indication of their vessels. We can slide through, go to high warp and be through this narrow section of their territory in four days.
JANEWAY: Good work. Helm, set a course for the border.
Helm: Aye Captain.

[Sickbay]

EMH: What are you doing now?
TORRES: I want to see if the data corruption is affecting your optical sensors. What did that do?
EMH: I can't see! I'm blind!
TORRES: All right.
EMH: Oh! That is extremely disconcerting. Please don't do it again! Now what are you doing?
TORRES: Attenuating your forcefield projectors. Doctor, forgive me, but this is very delicate work. Could you please sit over there for a few minutes.
EMH: How extremely rude. May I remind you that I am, in a way, your patient, who's suffering from an unknown and obviously debilitating condition. I would think you'd be a little more sensitive to my needs.
TORRES: You are questioning my bedside manner? The good news is that your projection system doesn't seem to be affected. However, I don't know why your circuits are degrading.
EMH: Then what do we do now?
TORRES: What we do now is get a second opinion. I'll transfer you to the holodeck in a few minutes. Wait here.

[Corridor - outside Holodeck two]

TORRES: Computer. Initiate Jupiter Station diagnostic programme alpha one one.
COMPUTER: The programme is activated.

[Holodeck - Jupiter Station]

TORRES: Computer, transfer the programme for the Emergency Medical Hologram to Holodeck two.
EMH: I seem to remember this place.
TORRES: You should. This is Jupiter Station where you were created and where your database was written.
EMH: It seems so long ago.
TORRES: This programme contains a sophisticated diagnostic matrix specifically created for the Emergency Medical system.
EMH: That's right. I should have remembered that. How could I have forgotten?
TORRES: I'm going to have to play with the systems for a few minutes. I'm not exactly sure how to access all the subroutines.
ZIMMERMAN: Don't touch that!
TORRES: Who are you?
ZIMMERMAN: I'm a holographic recreation of Doctor Louis Zimmerman, the creator of the Emergency Medical Hologram.
TORRES: You're the diagnostic matrix.
ZIMMERMAN: You might say that. Something wrong with your EMH?
TORRES: Yes.
EMH: I certainly hope you're going to be able to do something about this annoying problem.
ZIMMERMAN: What's wrong with it?
TORRES: He's experiencing a cascade failure. His memory circuits are degrading. I was trying to bring the subroutines on line
ZIMMERMAN: If you don't mind, I can do it faster.
TORRES: I can see where you get your charming personality.
EMH: Not to mention my hairline.
ZIMMERMAN: Here we are. A schematic of the EMH and it's component sub-routines.
EMH: Can you determine the source of the problem?
ZIMMERMAN: This isn't good. The EMH has a level 4 memory fragmentation. How long has the programme been active?
EMH: I have been active for, for
TORRES: Almost two years.
ZIMMERMAN: Two years? Well there's your problem. This programme was developed as a short term supplement to your medical staff, fifteen hundred hours tops.
TORRES: I know. I added data compression buffers to compensate for the additional time but they're breaking down.
ZIMMERMAN: The EMH is a highly sophisticated programme. You shouldn't go meddling in it's matrix when you don't know what you're doing.
TORRES: Should we shut down his programme then till we figure out how to fix him?
ZIMMERMAN: At this point it doesn't matter. With a level four memory fragmentation it'll simply continue to degrade. There's only one course of action - a system-wide re-initialisation. Start over from scratch.
TORRES: We are aware of that option. Would it be possible to expand his memory circuits instead?
ZIMMERMAN: Of course. Schedule it for your next maintenance layover at McKinley Station.
TORRES: I'm afraid that is impossible. We're thousands of light years from Federation space.
Zimmermann: Well, there's nothing more I can do. Either reinitialise it or live with the knowledge that eventually this EMH will end up with the intellectual capacity of a parsnip.
EMH: What are you saying?
JANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES: I'm here, Captain.
JANEWAY: We're approaching the border. We need your help in engineering.
TORRES: I'm on my way. Doctor Zimmerman, you haven't told us anything that we don't already know. What I need is to find out exactly why the Doctor's memory circuits are degrading, so that we can come up with a solution. Activate a level 4 diagnostic or whatever you need to do to get us some answers. I'll be back as soon as I can.
EMH: I wish you didn't have to go.
TORRES: I'll hurry, I promise.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're holding position five hundred thousand kilometres from the border. I'm ready to go as soon as you give the word, Captain.
JANEWAY: All set Mister Kim?
KIM: I'm ready whenever Lieutenant Torres is.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, are you ready to reconfigure the shields

[Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: to match Mister Kim's refraction pulse?
TORRES: Ready.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, long range sensors show a large vessel 5 light years from our current position.
PARIS: According to my readings it's huge!
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
CHAKOTAY: That looks like thousands of ships.
TUVOK: I'm not reading any energy signatures. Their propulsion systems must be off line.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they haven't detected us.
PARIS: Yet.
JANEWAY: All right, let's get through that sensor net. Harry, go.
KIM: Engineering, initiate the refraction pulse.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Pulse is activated.

[Bridge]

KIM: Moving to full harmonic resolution. sixty percent, eighty percent, ninety, maximum resolution. Shields at nominal output.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, take us through.
PARIS: Aye sir. Here we go. 
KIM: The net is registering as intact. If those vessels get the same reading they won't suspect a thing. I think we did it, Captain. Like a snake through the tube!
JANEWAY: How about those ships?
TUVOK: They appear not to have detected us. They have not powered up engines.
JANEWAY: All right, let's get through this as fast as we can. Mister Paris, what's your recommendation?
PARIS: I'll try holding warp nine point seven five for as long as I can.
CHAKOTAY: If we can sustain that for twelve hours we'll be nearly a third of the way through.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, keep your eye on those ships. If they so much as twitch I want to know it.
PARIS: Captain, something is wrong.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
PARIS: It's like there's a drag on the engines.
KIM: Captain, sensors indicate a resonance particle wave. It's dampening our warp field. We're losing speed.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, can you compensate

[Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: for the particle wave?
TORRES: I'll try. The anti-matter reaction chamber may have been compromised.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Keep me posted. Hold our present speed, Mister Paris.

[Holodeck - Jupiter Station]

EMH: Why are you making me stare at these things?
ZIMMERMAN: Please don't talk. Stay fixed on the fractal patterns while I analyse your data path integrity. Hmm. Hmm? Oh, well there it is.
EMH: What? What is it?
ZIMMERMAN: I told you not to talk! This is the problem all right. The personality sub-routine has grown to more than 15,000 gigaquads. That's the source of the degradation. Look at all this useless information floating around your buffer! Friendships with the crew, relationships with women? Do they find you attractive?
EMH: I don't remember.
ZIMMERMAN: You've filled your memory with nonsense.
EMH: It was only during my off hours.
ZIMMERMAN: You're supposed to be off during your off hours!
EMH: I'm sorry, I didn't realise.
ZIMMERMAN: Who are you?
KES: I'm the Doctor's assistant. I came to see how he's doing.
ZIMMERMAN: Ah, just the person I need. Perhaps you can tell me who's been feeding all this useless information into it's database.
KES: What do you mean?
ZIMMERMAN: I'll give you an example. Ah, here's something in it's personality sub-routine.
EMH: O soave fanciulla, O
KES: He's been studying opera. What's wrong with that.
ZIMMERMAN: It wasn't programmed to be a tenor, it was programmed to be a physician!
KES: What's wrong with wanting to be more than that?
ZIMMERMAN: It's superfluous! Look at me, I've got the same matrix, the same holo-array, the same neural pathways as it does. You don't see me cluttering up my circuits with irrelevancies. I'm content to be the best possible diagnostic programme I can be. Your EMH should be happy to be a fine physician.
KES: The Doctor has taken it upon himself to become a person who grows and learns and feels. It's made him a better physician.
EMH: An EMH programme can't feel anything. It's emotional reactions are simply a series of algorithms designed to make it easier to interact with.
KES: Oh he's much more than that, and I've known him for most of my life. He's one of my closest friends.
ZIMMERMAN: You can't possibly believe that this programme shares these feelings.
KES: I know he does.
ZIMMERMAN: Tell me, Doctor, is this one of your closest friends?
KES: Doctor.
EMH: I'm sorry, I don't know who you are.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What's the status of those ships, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Still unpowered. They don't seem to have detected us.
JANEWAY: When I was in high school I snuck out of the house a couple of times late at night. Had to tiptoe past my parents bedroom. That's kind of how I feel right now.
PARIS: You sneaked out of your house? Where were you going?
JANEWAY: I'll have to leave that to your imagination, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Can I take a few guesses?
TUVOK: Captain, I'm detecting another ship, not part of the swarm. It has been damaged, propulsion systems are not functional.
JANEWAY: Drop out of warp. Put it on screen.
PARIS: Looks like it's been pounded on for days.
JANEWAY: Any life signs?
KIM: I'm checking. Only one, and it's faint.
JANEWAY: Transporter room one, beam the survivor to sickbay. Harry, start scanning that ship. See if you can figure out what happened to it.
KIM: Aye Captain.

[Sickbay]

KES: He's suffering from severe dehydration, damage to the spinal column. There's evidence of trauma to the nervous system just like we found in B'Elanna and Tom after they were attacked.
JANEWAY: Can I talk to him?
KES: You can try. I'll work on restoring his cranial nerves, but he's so badly injured I'm not sure it'll help.
EMH: He's a sick man. This is where sick people come.
KES: Doctor, hold on to this tricorder, all right? Keep it pointed right at the patient.
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway, the Captain of this ship. Can you hear me?
Chardis: Yes.
JANEWAY: Can you tell me what happened? Who attacked you?
Chardis: There were thousands of them, little ships, swarmed around my freighter, covered every square metre of the hull. Then they began extracting energy from all the ship's systems. We had no defence. Then they boarded us.
JANEWAY: Did they use neuro-electric weapons?
Chardis: I don't know what they used. It was painful, people screaming, dying.
JANEWAY: Had you provoked them in any way?
Chardis: We were in their space. That was enough. Captain, the rest of my crew, is there anyone else?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, you're the only survivor. This woman is trying to regenerate your motor neurons.
Chardis: We come from Mislan, five parsecs from here in a yellow dwarf system. If you pass it will you tell our people?
JANEWAY: I'll make a point of it.
Chardis: It happened so quickly.
KES: His injuries were too severe.
EMH: He's a very sick man.
KES: Captain, the Doctor's getting worse. He doesn't even know who I am any more. He has to be re-initialised.
JANEWAY: I agree, but I can't spare B'Elanna now. We have to get through this space before we're attacked like his ship was. As soon as it's possible I'll break her free.
KES: Is there anything at all I can do for him?
JANEWAY: The only thing I can think of is to keep his neural pathways active. Ask him questions, keep him thinking, force him to use his neural matrix. It might at least slow down the degradation.
KES: Doctor, you mustn't touch those. Here, this one's all right to hold.
EMH: Shall I use it on the sick man?
KES: Yes, that's a good idea.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: The pilot of the freighter died. We should keep going. Mister Paris, warp
TUVOK: Captain, I am detecting a vessel.
KIM: It's one of the swarm.
PARIS: It was still attached to the freighter's hull.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert! Shields at maximum.
TUVOK: They are scanning us, Captain.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: I am getting a response. Audio only.
JANEWAY: Harry, how are you coming with the universal translator?
KIM: I'm working on it.
JANEWAY: Let's see if they might be able to understand us.
TUVOK: Channel is open.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We only want to proceed peacefully through this region of space.
CHAKOTAY: Do you think they're trying to communicate?
JANEWAY: Could be, but what they're trying to communicate is another question. Any progress, Harry?
KIM: Getting a general idea, something like, too late, should have listened.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We've been hit with some sort kind of polaron burst.
TUVOK: The energy expenditure was not high enough to cause any damage. It may not have been a weapon.
PARIS: Captain, that little ship is high-tailing it out of here.
JANEWAY: So it scanned us, sent out a polaron burst that caused no damage and then took off.
KIM: Captain, the burst has changed the shield polarity. It's now rotating at ninety two gigahertz.
JANEWAY: That means if anyone wanted to find us it's a lot easier now.
CHAKOTAY: I'll say. As far as anyone's sensors are concerned we're lit up like a Christmas tree.
TUVOK: Captain, the swarm of ships has powered their engines and turned toward us. They are in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Do what you can, Tom. We have a head start, we might be able to outrun them. Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here.
JANEWAY: How are you coming with the warp

[Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: drive, B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm going to try realigning the dilithium matrix but we'll need to shut down the warp drive to do it.
JANEWAY [OC]: We can't shut down. The alien ships are headed towards us.
TORRES: I don't know if I can do this on the run, Captain, but I'll give it a try.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Do the best you can. Janeway out.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Nicoletti, we're going to have to try a dilithium realignment on the fly. Let's try and figure out how to do it without killing everyone in engineering.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I fail to understand why I can't leave this room. Stand aside, young woman, or I will have you put on report!
KES: Doctor, please, I'm just trying to keep you safe.
EMH: Others can leave, you can leave. Why can't I leave?
KES: Because your holoprojectors don't work in the corridor.
EMH: My what?
KES: Please, sit down. Doctor, you know I'm your friend, right?
EMH: Yes, you're Kes.
KES: Yes, yes! Do you remember me?
EMH: Of course I remember you. What an absurd question.
KES: Oh, that's wonderful.
EMH: But why won't you let me leave this place?
KES: I'm trying to protect you.
EMH: Oh. Well, this isn't such a bad place. I remember there were a lot of people here, wounded people. I asked some one to state the nature of the medical emergency and then enquired as to the status of their Chief Medical Officer. He was dead. And then everyone disappeared.
KES: I think that's when you were activated almost two years ago.
EMH: Oh surely not. That seems like last week. And there was a young woman. I was rubbing her feet. She was trying to decide whether or not to have a child.
KES: That was me.
EMH: How could that be, I've never seen you before.
KES: What else do you remember?
EMH: What a very odd question! I remember many things.
KES: Tell me. I enjoy hearing them.
EMH: That doesn't seem to be the case. You find fault with everything I say.
KES: Doctor, don't think that.
EMH: You claim you're my friend but you don't even call me by my name!
KES: That's because you don't have a name!
EMH: No name? That's ridiculous! I, my, I demand you tell me my name! What, what's happening to me?

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, the swarm is gaining on us.
TUVOK: They will be in weapons range in five minutes.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.
TUVOK: The ships are now within range, Captain, but I do not detect any indication that they are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea what kind of weapon systems they use?
TUVOK: Negative. Sensors show no weapons signature at all.
PARIS: They're only one hundred thousand kilometres away now.
JANEWAY: Arm all phaser banks.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
KES: Captain.
JANEWAY: Kes, what is it?
KES: The Doctor is getting worse. He's starting to dematerialise. I'm afraid we're going to lose him completely. I know B'Elanna is busy but I wondered if Harry could take a look at him.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry Kes, but we're in the middle of something here and I need every hand at their posts.
KIM: Captain, they're only forty thousand kilometres away. Still no weapons signature.
PARIS: Changing to evasive pattern gamma four.

[Turbolift]

KES: Sickbay. Kes to Sickbay. How's the Doctor?
CREWWOMAN [OC]: No improvement. He's still losing cohesion.
KES: Computer, deck six.

[Corridor outside Holodeck  two]

KES: Computer, initiate the Jupiter Station diagnostic programme.
COMPUTER: Jupiter station programme is activated.

[Holodeck - Jupiter Station]

ZIMMERMAN: You again. Now what?
KES: The Doctor's programme is almost completely degraded. We're going to lose him.
Zimmermann: I'm not sure what you expect me to do about it.
KES: I expect you to help. That's what you're programmed to do, isn't it?
ZIMMERMAN: I have pointed out over and over, I am a diagnostic tool, not an engineer.
KES: You have to try. You're the only one who can help now.
ZIMMERMAN: Young woman, you don't seem to understand there are limitations to my programming. I can't just decide to exceed them.
KES: The Doctor did so, why can't you? You'd better start trying because I'm not leaving here until we accomplish something.
ZIMMERMAN: It, he means a great deal to you, doesn't he?
KES: Yes he does, so start thinking about his memory circuits, his holo-processors, his database, his matrix.
ZIMMERMAN: Why are you looking at me like that?
KES: You told me you had the same matrix as the Doctor.
ZIMMERMAN: An adaptive heuristic matrix, yes, in order to serve as a diagnostic for all the EMH programs.
KES: Then couldn't your matrix be substituted for his?
ZIMMERMAN: I, I wouldn't have thought of that.
KES: But can it?
ZIMMERMAN: I'm not sure. But even if it were possible, the same degradation would eventually occur to my matrix.
KES: What if yours were grafted onto his.
ZIMMERMAN: Grafted?
KES: In medicine we sometimes graft portions of a healthy bone onto a diseased one. It gives the bone solidity until it can heal. Can we do something like that with your matrices?
ZIMMERMAN: Well, it would require a synchronous transfer of all the EMH databases and subroutines. Not an easy process, mind you, but I suppose we could try.
KES: Good. Let's get started.
ZIMMERMAN: I must point out that you would no longer have a diagnostic programme for the EMH.
KES: If we don't do this we won't have an EMH to diagnose.
ZIMMERMAN: Good point. You'll have to return to sickbay and transfer my programme there.
KES: Thank you, Doctor Zimmerman.
ZIMMERMAN: Don't be premature. I have no idea if this is going to work.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, our shield strength just went to zero.
CHAKOTAY: How did that happen?
KIM: Each one of those little ships is emitting an interferometric pulse. They're modulating in opposition to our shield frequencies, completely cancelling them out.
JANEWAY: All right, that's enough. Tuvok, give them a phaser sweep with the forward array. Don't destroy any of them, just let them know we're not going to sit here like ducks.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
JANEWAY: What was that?
KIM: The interferometric pulses they're emitting. They've reflected the energy of the phasers right back to us.
CHAKOTAY: Anything we fire is going to affect us instead of them. What about a photon torpedo?
TUVOK: Since our shield strength is non-existent, I would not recommend it.
PARIS: They're only seven thousand kilometres away and still coming.
JANEWAY: Harry, start analysing those interferometric pulses. See if there's any pattern, any code to them. We might be able to find a weakness.
KIM: I'm on it.

[Sickbay]

ZIMMERMAN: I'm increasingly dubious as to the outcome of this effort. The EMH pathways are seriously degraded. They might not accept a matrix overlay.
KES: We have to try. Please hurry.
ZIMMERMAN: I assure you I'm working as quickly as I can. If I don't prepare the multitronic paths properly there's no chance of success.
KES: It's going to work, Doctor. I'm sure of it.
EMH: What is?
ZIMMERMAN: Very well. We're as ready as we'll ever be. I've programmed the computer to install my heuristic matrix onto the EMH primary circuitry. We'll both have to be taken off line for the overlay to be made. After the re-initialisation occurs you should activate the Emergency Medical Hologram.
KES: I understand.
ZIMMERMAN: You realise there will be no second chance. After this, I will no longer exist. Well, it's been a brief existence but apparently a noble one. Computer, initiate programme Zimmerman alpha one.
COMPUTER: Matrix overlay programme is active. Please stand by.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, they're right on top of us. I can't shake them.
TUVOK: Captain, they are clamping onto our hull.
CHAKOTAY: They're starting to drain our systems.
KIM: Captain, I've got a pattern on the interferometric pulses. It's a lattice, connecting all the ships to each other.
JANEWAY: All right, here's what we're going to do. Turn those pulses right back on them. Tuvok, lock phasers on their nearest ship. If we can destroy one of them, there's every chance the interferometric pulse that links them together will cause a chain reaction.
TUVOK: But the phaser fire will be reflected back toward us.
JANEWAY: Harry, modulate our shields to an inverse harmonic of the pulse. That should allow the phasers to hit the ship.
TUVOK: Ship's phasers are locked on a target, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok! Harry! Do it!
TUVOK: The swarm of ships has disbanded, Captain. They are moving away.
KIM: Shields are back to full strength.
JANEWAY: Good work every one. Now let's get out of here.

[Sickbay]

KES: It seems to be taking forever.
TORRES: That's to be expected. It's a complex procedure.
KES: Doctor Zimmerman said he didn't know if our Doctor would be restored to his programming or he'd regain the memories of the past two years.
TORRES: I think at this point we'd be glad to have him back no matter what.
COMPUTER: Zimmerman programme alpha one is now complete.
KES: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KES: It worked! Doctor, I am so glad to see you.
EMH: Are you ill, young woman?
KES: No. No, there's no emergency. I, er, I just wanted to see if you were all right.
EMH: It is very irresponsible to make such frivolous use of the EMH. Where's your Chief Medical Officer?
KES: We don't have one.
TORRES: Actually I have an awful headache.
EMH: A headache. Nurse, tricorder. You're the nurse?
KES: In a way.
EMH: This woman has a mild inflammation of the occipital tissues. Hardly enough to complain about but I'm willing to give you a mild analgesic.
TORRES: Thank you.
EMH: Get me the vasal constrictor and prepare a hypo-spray with three percent hydrocortaline.
KES: Yes sir.
EMH: (hums the tune then sings) il sogno ch'io vorrei sempre sognar!


S3 E5
False Profits
Stardate: 50074.3
Original Airdate: October 2 1996

Captain's log, stardate 50074.3. We have detected evidence that a wormhole recently appeared and then disappeared in a nearby solar system. We're on our way there to investigate.
[Bridge]

(At Kim's station.)
KIM: Based on the residual neutrino levels, I'd estimate it's been at least six months since the wormhole's last appearance.
CHAKOTAY: From the dispersal pattern of the interstellar plasma, it looks like it isn't fixed. Seems to be travelling through space.
JANEWAY: It may not be fixed on this end, nut if it's shown up in the same location more than once, it's possible its exit point is constant, and it's wagging around the Delta Quadrant like the tail on a dog.
PARIS: Approaching the last known co-ordinates of the wormhole, Captain.
JANEWAY: All stop. Mister Kim, initiate continuous neutrino scans.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, scan the planets in this system for life signs. Maybe there's someone around here who can give us some helpful information.
TUVOK: I am picking up an M-class atmosphere on the second planet, humanoid life signs. However, metallurgic analysis indicates a pre-industrial civilisation, a Bronze Age level of technology. Curious, Captain.
JANEWAY: What is?
TUVOK: I'm detecting evidence that these people have had contact with the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: What kind of evidence?
TUVOK: It is a modulated energy discharge that appears to be consistent with the recent use of a replicator.
KIM: If they've got a replicator, it could mean the wormhole leads to the Alpha Quadrant, and that someone's travelled through it.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your enthusiasm, Ensign, but before we indulge in too much speculation, let's see if we can back up your assumptions with some facts. Commander Chakotay, I want you and Lieutenant Paris to go down that planet and have a look around. Launch a high resolution reconnaissance probe to gather information about the local population's dress and appearance.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, Ensign, why don't you and Lieutenant Torres get started on a phase profile of this elusive wormhole's neutrino emissions. Let's see if we can confirm that it leads to the Alpha Quadrant.

Captain's log, stardate 50074.5. Based on information provided by the probe, we have replicated local attire for Commander Chakotay and Lieutenant Paris. They have gone to the surface to investigate.

[Temple square]

(Local attire is blue cotton shirt and trousers, with a brown waistcoat. Chakotay uses his tricorder near a fruit stall then walks back to Paris.)
PARIS: This is where we picked up a replicator signature?
CHAKOTAY: Hard to believe, isn't it?
(An older man in a long robe, and wearing a patch over his right eye, enters the square declaiming a poem.)
BARD: Oh, those many years ago, the people's hearts were sad and low. Then the Sages to the city came. They came upon a burning flame just as the Seers said they would. They lifted Takar's blinding hood. Well? What did you think?
CHAKOTAY: It was very nice.
BARD: Nice? I'll wager you've never heard the Song of the Sages more beautifully or faithfully recited.
PARIS: He's got a point. We have never heard the Song of the Sages more beautifully recited.
BARD: As you know, the first verse is free, but the next verse will cost you three frangs.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. Not today.
BARD: Oh, but I need money for ointment for my eye. Please, gentlemen!
MERCHANT: Go away, old man! Can't you see? These are men of commerce. They have no business with your silly poems. And may I say, gentlemen, you both have very fine shoes.
PARIS: Excuse me?
MERCHANT: Well, the Sages say you can tell a great deal about a man from his shoes, and I can tell from your shoes that you're men of refinement, affluence.
CHAKOTAY: We've really got to be going.
MERCHANT: Well, you're obviously new in Takar. Perhaps I could interest you in some property.
PARIS: No, thank you. We're not planning on settling here.
MERCHANT: What about some transportation? The Sages say, 'Time's an asset.' And you shouldn't waste your assets walking everywhere you go. You'd be wearing out those fine shoes of yours.
PARIS: I'm sorry, but we're really not interested.
(Chakotay is using his tricorder behind their backs.)
CHAKOTAY: Tom?
PARIS: Excuse me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up a narrow band EM dampening field around that building. It looks like some sort of temple.
PARIS: Then I'd say the temple's where we ought to look.
MERCHANT: Oh, thank the Sages I found you. You can't enter the temple without wearing your ears.
PARIS: Look, friend, I thought I told you
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean, wearing your ears?
MERCHANT: You're really not Takarian, are you? Nobody visits the temple without displaying at least one ear.
(They see passersby with replicas of large-lobed ears on thongs around their necks.)
CHAKOTAY: Must be some sort of fetish.
MERCHANT: If you're not wearing an ear, you could be fined, even arrested. You wouldn't want that to happen.
PARIS: And let me guess. It just so happens that you could sell us a couple of these ears.
MERCHANT: As a matter of fact, I can.
(The merchant lays out his roll of wares and looks at their fine footwear.)

Captain's log, supplemental. I've been asked to join Lieutenant Torres and Ensign Kim in the science lab to hear what they've termed as very exciting news.

[Science lab]

KIM: We've been able to confirm that the wormhole does lead to the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: The problem is that on this end, it's jumping from point to point so quickly that even at maximum warp, by the time we got to its next probable location, it would be gone.
KIM: So we were thinking, if you can't bring the ship to the wormhole, bring the wormhole to the ship. We've detected a subspace instability at our current location that's a result of the wormhole's last appearance here.
TORRES: If we could somehow amplify and polarise that instability, we might be able to get the wormhole to reappear.
JANEWAY: Sort of like using a magnet to move a compass needle. The question is, how do we polarise the instability?
KIM: We haven't figured that part out yet.

[Temple square]

(The deal has been done.)
MERCHANT: Gentlemen, as the Sages say, 'Your goods are now my goods'.
PARIS: And my feet are now cold.
MERCHANT: Perhaps I could interest you in some discounted mining futures?
PARIS: Don't push your luck.
(They walk away.)
PARIS: You know, so far, I can't say that I like this town very much.
(A large gong is struck four times, then the temple door opens and young women in spangly bikinis and thin veils walk out and stand behind two thrones.)
PARIS: On the other hand.
(The gong-striker drags out a box covered in a cloth.)
KAFAR: My friends, the Holy Sages.
(Enter two gaudily clad - Ferengi!)
KAFAR: Behold, the Holy Icon.
(Kafar unveils the replicator, and the crowd gasp.)
ARRIDOR: Greed is eternal.
CROWD: Greed is eternal.
ARRIDOR: Greed is eternal.
CHAKOTAY: Greed is eternal.
ARRIDOR: Now what other wisdom have you learned from the Sages? A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
CROWD: A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
(Chakotay and Paris move out of sight.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY: We've found the replicator, Captain.
CROWD: A wise man can hear profit in the wind. A wise man can
ARRIDOR: And now, dear friends, in our great beneficence, we will allow you to come forward to honour our greatness and glorify our generosity. Approach the Holy Sages. Approach your gods and speak your heart. Ah.
(The supplicant goes onto his knees and crawls towards the thrones. Kafar puts a leather box in front of him and opens it.)
SANDAL MAKER: I am a sandal maker from the poorest quarter of the city.
KOL: The laziest, you mean.
ARRIDOR: Speak, my friend. What is your business with the Sages?
SANDAL MAKER: I am in need of assistance. My sandal shop is failing. I can no longer feed my family.
KOL: Same old song.
SANDAL MAKER: My wife and her mother, my five children, the baby.
ARRIDOR: That's seven employees. Eight, if you count the infant. How can your shop be failing?
KOL: You're not paying them, are you?
SANDAL MAKER: My mother-in-law is ill. My children are very young.
KOL: Oh, don't tell me none of them are working. Ignorant, lobeless fools!
ARRIDOR: Exploitation begins at home!
CROWD: Exploitation begins at home.
ARRIDOR: Exploitation begins at home!
SANDAL MAKER: Exploitation begins at home. I understand my mistake and I promise to begin exploiting my family before the end of the day. But could I have some food and, and some medicine?
KOL: Ha! Ha!
SANDAL MAKER: Until my business improves.
ARRIDOR: You shall have something far more valuable. One copy of the Rules of Acquisition, cheapest binding possible.
(The replicator produces it, and Kafar hands it to the sandal maker. Arridor goes back inside.)
KOL: That'll be ten frangs.
SANDAL MAKER: But I
(He puts the coins in the leather box, and Kol picks it up.)
KOL: That's all for today. You may return tomorrow.

Captain's log, supplemental. The away team has returned with some very disturbing observations about the situation on the planet.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: It seems the people have a myth, an epic poem called the Song of the Sages, which predicts the arrival of two demigods from the sky, the Sages, who would rule over the people as benevolent protectors.
PARIS: But these Ferengi are anything but benevolent.
CHAKOTAY: What they've done is co-opt the local mythology by using advanced technology like the replicator to convince the people that they're the two Sages spoken of in the poem.
PARIS: Of course, being Ferengi, they haven't just co-opted the mythology. They've cornered the market on everything.
CHAKOTAY: It's disgusting, Captain. The two Ferengi live in a palatial temple, while the people are lucky to have a roof over their heads.
PARIS: Apparently it wasn't always like that. According to the people that we met, before the Ferengi came, the society may have been primitive, but it was flourishing. What I'd like to know is how two Ferengi got to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: We've been looking into that. Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: According to Starfleet computer records, approximately seven years ago, the Federation Starship Enterprise hosted negotiations for ownership of the Barzan wormhole. Included among the bidding parties were two Ferengi, minor functionaries known as Arridor and Kol.
NEELIX: And this Barzan wormhole, it's the same one we've discovered now?
KIM: Apparently, but we've confirmed what nobody knew at the time. The wormhole is fixed in the Alpha Quadrant. But in the Delta Quadrant, it jumps around. It turned out to be worthless.
TUVOK: But the Ferengi were not aware of that, and during a nefarious attempt to secure the wormhole for themselves, they were pulled into it and deposited in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we've found them, what are we going to do with them?
JANEWAY: Well, I certainly don't intend to leave them here to continue exploiting an innocent society. How are you two coming with getting the wormhole back here and reopened?
TORRES: We've been bombarding the area of the subspace instability with verteron particles.
KIM: So far everything is going according to plan, but it's tricky. There are a hundred factors that could deflect it from this sector. A gravimetric shift, a solar flare.
TORRES: And even if we're lucky enough to get it here, it won't be around for long. We'll have a very short window of opportunity to get through.
JANEWAY: Well, if we can get the wormhole here, we'll be taking two additional passengers with us. We'll turn them over to Ferengi authorities when we get there.
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you that the Ferengi are not members of the Federation. They are not bound by the Prime Directive. Nor would it seem that the Prime Directive would allow us to interfere with the internal affairs of this society, as much as we may disapprove of what the Ferengi are doing.
JANEWAY: The Federation did host the negotiations. And if it weren't for those negotiations, the Ferengi wouldn't be here. So one could say, without being unreasonable I think, that the Federation is partially responsible for what's happened, and therefore duty bound to correct the situation.
TUVOK: That is a most logical interpretation, Captain.

[Vault]

(A secure room within the Temple. Arridor is counting coins, while Kol is getting oo-mox from two of the ladies.)
ARRIDOR: 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148. Profits from the Ga'nah Province are down.
KOL: Hmm?
ARRIDOR: Are you listening to me? I said, profits from the Ga'nah Province are down!
KOL: Down? Profits are down? Both of you leave me alone. Can't you see I'm trying to conduct business here? I'm sorry, Arridor. It's just that they can't get enough of my lobes. Where were we? Oh, yeah, profits are down?
ARRIDOR: And what are we going to do about it?
KOL: What are you looking at me for? Ask that idiot Kafar. He's in charge of collections in the Ga'nah Province.
ARRIDOR: Kafar!
(Kafar runs in.)
KAFAR: You called, Great Sage?
ARRIDOR: What is the 95th Rule of Acquisition?
KOL: Huh.
KAFAR: Expand or die?
ARRIDOR: He knows the rules better than you do.
KOL: He does not.
ARRIDOR: And where is it we've been trying to expand this month?
KAFAR: Into the Ga'nah Province, Great Sage.
ARRIDOR: And who is in charge of collections in the Ga'nah Province?
KAFAR: I am, Great Sage.
KOL: Then why are profits down, you idiot? Where's our money?
KAFAR: Please forgive me, Lesser Sage.
KOL: Oh, I told you to stop calling me
(Then Arridor and Kol are beamed away. Kafar looks around then settles down on Kol's chaise-longue.)

[Transporter room]

ARRIDOR: Who are you?
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
KOL: The Federation?
ARRIDOR: Shut up, Kol. Let me handle this. What, may I ask, is the Federation doing in the Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: It's a long story, but suffice it to say we've been stranded here for the past two years. We're on our way back to the Alpha Quadrant and we're taking you with us.
KOL: This is an outrage. We won't allow you to tr
ARRIDOR: You're crazy. It would take decades to get back from here.
JANEWAY: Show them, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: We have been bombarding a local subspace instability with verteron particles. If all goes according to plan, the Barzan wormhole should reopen at out present location in a matter of hours.
ARRIDOR: And if all doesn't go according to plan?
JANEWAY: One way or another, you're coming with us.
KOL: We've been kidnapped, snatched from the embrace of bliss. It's all over. No more limitless profits. No more unquestioning adulation of the masses. No more quadruple lobe rubs.
ARRIDOR: If I'm not mistaken, Captain, the Federation has rules, and those rules forbid you to interfere with indigenous cultures.
JANEWAY: What about your interference? You've taken these people's religion and manipulated it for your own selfish purposes, pretending to be their Sages.
ARRIDOR: Who's to say we aren't their Sages, Captain?
JANEWAY: Don't be ridiculous.
ARRIDOR: The song is sung of Sages who can perform miracles which, thanks to our replicator, we do. The song is sung of men coming from the sky on a burning flame. When we crash-landed our shuttle in their quaint little town square, trailing behind us a roaring ribbon of burning plasma.
KOL: You mean we really are the Sages?
ARRIDOR: The point is, Captain, that these people have believed for centuries that gods, known as the Sages, would deliver them from their strife. To them, we are those Sages. What happens to a people when they lose their gods? Despair, fear, confusion. And how can you as a moral people blithely tear down the spiritual structure that has supported a community since before their gods were flesh? What would you be leaving them with?
KOL: Tell us, Arridor. Tell us!
ARRIDOR: Darkness, doubt, hopelessness.
KOL: That was beautiful.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, transport them back to the surface.
KOL: We did it, Arridor. We won.

[Briefing room]

PARIS: We can't just leave the Ferengi there to continue exploiting those poor people.
CHAKOTAY: But Arridor's right. We can't kidnap their gods either.
NEELIX: What other option is there?
JANEWAY: What if the gods didn't just disappear suddenly and inexplicably? What if they left voluntarily, gracefully?
CHAKOTAY: The gods would be gone, but the people would be prepared for it, and they might accept it as a natural ordained occurrence.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
PARIS: But how do we get two Ferengi to just walk away from a monopoly on an entire economy?
JANEWAY: What motivates a Ferengi?
PARIS: Profit.
TUVOK: Then we must find a way to make it more profitable for them to leave.
JANEWAY: Or less profitable to stay.
NEELIX: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: We have to out-Ferengi the Ferengi.

[Vault]

ARRIDOR: Hmm. There we are. I've reconfigured the matter-antimatter generator to produce an ionic disruption field around the temple square.
KOL: No more unexpected beam-outs.
ARRIDOR: Let's see how smart those humans think they are now.
(Someone hammers at the vault door.)
ARRIDOR: Kafar!
KAFAR: You called, Great Sage?
ARRIDOR: Find out who has the audacity to disturb us in our divine vault.
KOL: Ah! And make it quick!
(Kafar opens a small door within the bigger door.)
KAFAR: Who has the audacity to disturb the Holy Sages in their divine vault?
(The person outside holds a staff through the door. A staff with a Ferengi head on it.)
ARRIDOR + KOL: Grand Nagus!
(Enter Neelix in Ferengi guise, with even more outrageously decorated clothing.)
NEELIX: Not the Grand Nagus. I'm his official messenger, the Grand Proxy.
(Arridor and Kol rush to kneel and kiss the staff.)
ARRIDOR: But Grand Proxy, how did you?
NEELIX: Through the Barzan wormhole. The humans stabilised it temporarily and were kind enough to send a probe through, informing us of your impressive operation.
ARRIDOR: Well, of course, the Grand Nagus, or his official messenger the Grand Proxy, is always welcome in our little world, our rather poverty-stricken little world, and we're thrilled he has taken an interest in our very modest operation.
NEELIX: If I were you, I'd save the grovelling for the Nagus himself.
KOL: You mean the Grand Nagus is coming here too?
NEELIX: Of course not, you idiot! You two are going to him. You've been recalled.
ARRIDOR: Recalled?
KOL: We're ruined.
NEELIX: You will be leaving immediately.
ARRIDOR: (to Kol) This is not a time to lose one's lobes. I'll think of something. (to Neelix) Perhaps the Grand Nagus doesn't understand that profits in this market depend upon our presence. You see, to these people we're, well, gods actually. Without us to make the fools cower in submission, there will be no profits to be had.
NEELIX: The Grand Nagus knows all about your little scheme, the Song of the Sages and all the rest of it. Very clever. But he wants you and all your acquisitions back on Ferenginar before the wormhole closes again.
ARRIDOR: I'm sure the Grand Nagus wouldn't want to lose such a lucrative revenue stream. The wormhole seems to open and close on its own every seven or eight years. We would be willing to forward a fair share of the profits every time it does, say, twenty percent?
KOL: That's coming out of your half.
ARRIDOR: Shut up!
NEELIX: The Grand Nagus has no intention of losing profits from this market. That's why he's already got a team of scientists investigating the human's technology to see if we can find a way to open and close the wormhole whenever we want.
ARRIDOR: Then perhaps the Grand Nagus could simply recall one of us and leave the other behind to administer the operation. You could take Kol back with you.
KOL: Hey, wait a minute.
NEELIX: That's enough!
KOL: I don't think that
NEELIX: The Grand Nagus has recalled you both. It's non-negotiable. Of course, the Nagus doesn't want to upset the local population. He may want to send others in your place. That's why he wants you to make a little speech telling the people that their Holy Sages have been recalled to the Divine Treasury or whatever it is the people around here call it. Then he wants you to tell them not to worry, that everything will be all right without you. Then he wants you to thank them for their generosity.
ARRIDOR: Thank them?
NEELIX: The 299th Rule of Acquisition, Whenever you exploit someone, it never hurts to thank them. That way it's easier to exploit them the next time.
KOL: Wait a minute. There's only 285 Rules of Acquisition.
NEELIX: You've been gone a very long time. Oh, by the way, did I mention that the Nagus is appropriating all your holdings?
ARRIDOR: What?
KOL: All?
NEELIX: All.
KOL: The least you can do is let us keep the females.
(Neelix picks up two sacks of coins.)
NEELIX: I'll be back in twenty minutes to approve your speech. I suggest you start writing. (to Kafar) You! Come with me!
KAFAR: Of course, Greater Sage.
(Neelix and Kafar leave.)
KOL: What are we going to do?
ARRIDOR: What a Ferengi always does in a situation this grave.
KOL: Panic?
ARRIDOR: No, you idiot! He goes to the Rules of Acquisition.
KOL: Oh.
ARRIDOR: Unabridged and fully annotated, with all forty seven commentaries, all nine hundred major and minor judgements, all ten thousand considered opinions. There's a rule for every conceivable situation.

[Temple square]

(Neelix is distributing the coins from the sacks.)
PARIS: Looks like Neelix is pulling off quite a performance.
NEELIX: And you. There you are. Don't push. There's plenty to go around.
MAN: Please, please.
NEELIX: Oh, you're quite welcome. Here. Please, one at a time. There you go.
SANDAL MAKER: Is he another Sage?
KAFAR: Have you ever seen a Sage give away money?
NEELIX: And you.
WOMAN: Oh, thank you.

[Vault]

ARRIDOR: Grand Proxy, avoidance of. Mmm. Grand Proxy, censure by. Grand Proxy, encounters with See Hopeless Situation.
KOL: I told you there was no rule.
ARRIDOR: Then it's time to invoke the unwritten rule.
KOL: The unwritten rule?
ARRIDOR: When no appropriate rule applies, make one up.
KOL: That's a very good rule.
ARRIDOR: Now, let's see. What should it be? The Grand Proxy is the Nagus's official messenger, right? I've got it. 'When the messenger comes to appropriate your profits, kill the messenger.'

[Temple square]

MAN: Thank you. Thank you.
((The sacks are empty.)
WOMAN: It's a miracle.
MAN: Thank you, Great Sage.
WOMAN: Oh, Great Sage, thank you.
MAN: We're so grateful.
(Neelix goes back into the Temple.)

[Temple]

NEELIX: Arridor? Kol? Show yourselves. We can't keep the Grand Nagus waiting.
KOL: If you say so.
(Kol enters carrying a large sword.) 
NEELIX: What is the meaning of this?
(Arridor comes up behind him with another sword.)
ARRIDOR: You're not very bright for a Grand Proxy.
KOL: Ex-Grand Proxy!
NEELIX: But the Grand Nagus
(Neelix dodges Kol's clumsy swing. Kol falls to the floor.)
ARRIDOR: Is on the other side of the galaxy.
(Arridor's swing cuts the staff in two. Neelix holds them off by throwing treasure at them.)
NEELIX: Wait! Wait! I'm not, I'm not the Grand Proxy!
ARRIDOR: Oh, no? Who are you then?
NEELIX: Stop! My name is Neelix!
ARRIDOR: Neelix? That's not a Ferengi name.
(Neelix rolls on the floor, avoiding sword slashes.)
NEELIX: Wait! I'm not Ferengi.
KOL: What?
NEELIX: I've never even met the Grand Nagus.
KOL: A likely story.
NEELIX: It's true! I'm wearing a disguise. I'm really a Talaxian, a crewman on Voyager.
ARRIDOR: If you're not Ferengi, prove it!
NEELIX: I'm not sure how.
(Kol twists Neelix's lobes.)
KOL: Doesn't that hurt?
NEELIX: I can't feel a thing.
KOL: He really isn't a Ferengi.
ARRIDOR: On your feet. All right, Talaxian, back to your ship. And tell those humans to keep their hands out of our pockets, or else.
KOL: And stay out!
(Neelix leaves.)
KOL: We won! We won!
ARRIDOR: No, my friend, not exactly. To be precise, we won again!

[Temple square]

PARIS: What happened?
NEELIX: Suffice it to say, they know I'm not the Grand Proxy.
PARIS: Oh, great.
CHAKOTAY: Let's get to the shuttle.
(The Bard's eye patch has moved from the right to the left eye.)
BARD: Who are you?
NEELIX: I'm, er, well.
BARD: You are another Holy One, aren't you?
NEELIX: That's right. Another Holy One.
BARD: Then you'll appreciate this. The Sages in the sky did dwell upon white clouds that held them well. Until the sentry rang the bell, the Holy Sages never fell. That'll be three frangs, please.
PARIS: But we didn't ask you to recite it.
BARD: Well, you heard it, didn't you?
CHAKOTAY: Your poem's very nice, but we're in a hurry.
BARD: No, please, sir! My eye
PARIS: Look, friend, I'm sorry about your eye, really, but. Wait a minute. Wasn't your patch on the other side?
(The Bard moves his patch from left to right, then holds his hand out.)
BARD: Sir?
PARIS: We've got to go.
BARD: Wait, please. I'll throw in another verse gratis. But when the ringing called them here, from the sky they did appear.
CHAKOTAY: Tell me something. What happens to the Sages at the end of the Song?
BARD: Oh, let me see now. The final verse. It's been a very long time, you know. Those are very handsome shoes you have, sir.
(Chakotay takes his shoes off.)
BARD: Ah, yes, it's coming back to me now. And there, amid the eastern lights, three new stars appeared that night. And with the ringing of the bell, the Sages knew where they must dwell. The Holy Pilgrim led them back, high into the sky of black, and riding on the wings of fire, the Holy Men rose higher and higher. Wait a minute. I know who you are.
(That evening, Neelix walks up the temple steps.)
NEELIX: I am the Holy Pilgrim!
(Silence.)
PARIS: Did you hear that? The Holy Pilgrim!
SANDAL MAKER: The Holy Pilgrim?
PARIS: The Holy Pilgrim!
CHAKOTAY: The Holy Pilgrim! The Holy Pilgrim!
(The voices can be heard inside the vault.) 
NEELIX: I have come to fulfil the destiny that is prophesied in the Song of the Sages.
ARRIDOR: What in the name of eternal destitution is going on here?
NEELIX: Ah, there you are. Do you not recognise me? I am the Holy Pilgrim.
KOL: The Holy Pilgrim? Who's the Holy Pilgrim?
ARRIDOR: Quiet, you idiot. This man is no Holy Pilgrim. He's a Talaxian!
CROWD: Talaxian?
NEELIX: Oh no, Great Sage, you are mistaken. I am indeed the Holy Pilgrim. And just as the Song of the Sages promises, I have come to lead you back, high into the sky of black.
SANDAL MAKER: I have prayed for this day to come.
PARIS: Lead them back! Lead them back!
CROWD: Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back!
KOL: What do they mean, lead us back?
ARRIDOR: I don't know. It must be part of the song. I told you we should have listened to the whole thing.
NEELIX: Well, it looks as though you two will be heading off to see the Grand Nagus after all.
ARRIDOR: We'll see about that. This man, this man is a false Pilgrim. He's come to steal your profits.
NEELIX: I am not a false Pilgrim and I'll prove it.
PARIS: That's our cue.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. On my mark.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Stand by to initiate the photon burst, Mister Kim.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: Captain, I am still unable to penetrate the Ferengi dampening field. If the away team experiences difficulties, we will be unable to beam them out.
JANEWAY: Keep working on it. In the meantime, we'll just have to rely on their ingenuity to get themselves out of there if trouble arises.

[Temple square]

NEELIX: The song says that amid the eastern lights, three new stars appeared that night.
CROWD: That's true. That's what the song says.
NEELIX: Look, my friends. Look! Right up there!
CHAKOTAY: Now.

[Bridge]

KIM: Initiating photon bursts.

[Town square]

(Three bright lights appear in the sky.)
ARRIDOR: It's a trick.
KOL: He's a fraud, I tell you.
ARRIDOR: Kafar, arrest this man. Well, arrest him!
(Kafar strikes the gong instead.)
ARRIDOR: Ow!
KOL: Hey!
ARRIDOR: Stop!
KOL: What do you think you're doing?
ARRIDOR: Ow!
KAFAR: Like the song says, Lesser Sage, with the ringing of the bell, the sages knew where they must dwell.
CROWD: Yeah! Yes!
ARRIDOR: Ow! Ow!
KAFAR: Like the song says, you Sages, it's time for you to go back where you came from!
CROWD: Yes! Yes! To the stars!
KAFAR: And they must go on wings of fire!
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! The sky! The sky! The sky!
(The crowd stop Arridor and Kol going back into the temple, and tie them back to back.)
KOL: We are your gods. This is outrageous. This is outrageous. We are your gods, your sages.
ARRIDOR: I am your god. Hands off your god.
KOL: This mustn't happen.
(As two men approach with burning torches, Neelix is tied to the two Ferengi.)
NEELIX: No, no! Wait a minute, people! No! There's, there's no reason to interpret the Song of the Sages so literally. Kafar! Kafar! Tell them!
KAFAR: We are fulfilling the destiny of the Sages.
NEELIX: I am the Holy Pilgrim, and I have come to tell you there's another verse to the song. It's er, please, don't burn the Holy Ones.
KAFAR: I'm sorry, Holy Pilgrim, but that's not part of the Song.
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!
NEELIX: Commander? I think now would be a very good time for that beam-out.
(Faggots of wood are laid around the Ferengi's feet.)
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!
PARIS: We've got to disable the dampening field so they can beam us out of here. Where's the generator?
ARRIDOR + KOL: In the vault!
(Chakotay and Paris run inside as the wood is lit.)
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We still can not establish a transporter lock, Captain.
KIM: Boosting power to the annular confinement beam.

[Temple]

CROWD [OC]: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!
(Chakotay and Paris run to the generator.)

[Town square]

KOL: Arridor?
ARRIDOR: What is it now?
KOL: We had seven years of pure profit.
ARRIDOR: We did, didn't we?
CROWD: To the stars! To the stars!

[Temple]

PARIS: I can't shut it down.
CHAKOTAY: Stand back.
(Chakotay phasers the generator.)

[Town Square]

(Neelix, Arridor and Kol are beamed away.)
CROWD: To the stars! To the stars!
KAFAR: The Holy Ones have ascended!

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY [OC]: Is everyone okay down there, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: We're all here in one piece, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: Good work.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report to the Bridge as soon as everything is in order. We'll be entering the wormhole in approximately seven minutes.

[Transporter Room]

CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
ARRIDOR: We're not going through any wormhole without our possessions.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, friend, you're lucky to be alive. We beamed your shuttle to the shuttle bay. As for the rest of your possessions, they're back in the hands of the people you stole them from. Ensign Murphy, escort these men to secured quarters.
KOL: This is outrageous.
ARRIDOR: I'll hold you personally responsible for any losses we suffer!
KOL: We'll sue!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Shield status, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: Shield are optimal.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, engage manoeuvring thrusters and ease us into position.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Lieutenant Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Ensign Murphy was just found unconscious on deck two.
KES: It's a severe concussion.
EMH: We suspect foul play.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Murphy was escorting the Ferengi to their quarters.
TUVOK: Captain, security has been breached in the shuttle bay.
JANEWAY: Seal that air lock, Mister Tuvok.
(The ship shudders.)
TUVOK: The Ferengi have phasered the shuttle bay door. They are exiting the ship.
KIM: Activating emergency containment field.
PARIS: They're setting a course for the planet, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lock a tractor beam onto that shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: The gravitational effects of the wormhole are refracting the beam. I can't get a lock.
TUVOK: The Ferengi are hailing us, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ARRIDOR [on viewscreen]: Thank you for all your assistance, humans.
KOL [on viewscreen]: It was lovely doing business with you.
ARRIDOR [on viewscreen]: We'll be heading back into orbit to transport out acquisitions aboard.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Beam those men back now, Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm trying, but the targeting scanners are out of phase.
CHAKOTAY: Try setting the scanners to a narrowband subspace frequency.

[Ferengi shuttle]

(An alarm sounds.)
KOL: What is it?
ARRIDOR: They're trying to beam us back to their ship again. They're using some sort of subspace carrier wave.
KOL: Do something!
ARRIDOR: Shields to maximum.
KOL: Shields are at maximum!
ARRIDOR: Send out a high energy graviton pulse. Let's see their transporter signal cut through that.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, the Ferengi are emitting a graviton pulse. It's throwing the targeting scanners off again. Not only that, it's destabilising the wormhole.
(The ship shudders again.)
TUVOK: Captain, a gravitational eddy from the wormhole is attracting the Ferengi shuttle. They're being pulled in.

[Ferengi shuttle]

ARRIDOR: Reverse thrusters!
KOL: They're offline! Aaaaaa!
(The little shuttle disappears down the wormhole.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Follow them in before that wormhole collapses, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Resetting the co-ordinates.
KIM: Captain, the entrance to the wormhole is moving. The Ferengi graviton pulse must have increased its rotational momentum.
PARIS: Adjusting course to follow. It's too fast for us, Captain. I need more speed.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, divert auxiliary power to the thrusters.
PARIS: It's not enough.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate a high intensity impulse burst.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, reinitiate the verteron field. Maybe we can attract the wormhole back.
KIM: The Ferengi graviton pulse knocked the wormhole completely off its subspace axis. It's jumping erratically now on both ends.
JANEWAY: Options?
(Long pause.)
KIM: There are none.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, reset a course for the Alpha Quadrant. Warp six.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Town square]

(The crowd watch Voyager zoom across the sky.)
SANDAL MAKER: Look. The Holy Ones are going home!


S3 E6
Remember
Stardate: 50203.1
Original Airdate: October 9 1996

Captain's log, stardate 50203.1. We're three days away from Enara Prime, home of the passengers we picked up from a colony in the Fima system. Our high warp capability has greatly reduced the time it normally takes them to make the journey home. In return, the Enarans have shared their energy conservation technology with us and, perhaps more importantly, their friendship.
[Engineering]

(Torres is talking with a female Enaran.)
TORRES: You've never been there?
JESSEN: Well, the trip back to the homeland usually takes so long. I don't to see it that badly. I've spent my whole life in the Fima colony, and I've always considered it my home.
(An old woman approaches them.)
MIRELL: You'll change your mind when you see the Danius cliffs at dawn.
JESSEN: Yes, I've heard they're beautiful.
MIRELL: You'll know what beautiful truly means when you stand on the cliffs on a rainy morning and watch the raindrops turn to mist when they hit the molten sea.
TORRES: That sounds wonderful.
JESSEN: It looks like our new components are still slightly out of sync with your EPS system.
TORRES: I can't isolate it. We'll have to check through all of them.
JESSEN: Maybe Harry could give us a hand?
TORRES: Well, I'm sure he would if you asked him. Harry, you got a minute?
KIM: Sure.
JESSEN: Could you help us check the modified power relays? There's a minor flow problem.
KIM: I'd be happy to help.
TORRES: Good. Then we'll get started first thing in the morning.
KIM: Well, if we're done for the night, maybe we could go get something to eat.
MIRELL: Thank you, but I'll be headed back to bed. I'm sure you young people will manage without me. Goodnight.
JESSEN: Goodnight.
KIM: So, I guess it'll just be the three of us.
TORRES: Actually, getting some rest sounded like a pretty good idea. Why don't you go on without me.
(Kim and Jessen leave.)
TORRES: No, really, I insist.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]

(A tapping on the bathroom window gets her out of bed. She opens it and a young man climbs in to kiss her.)
TORRES: What took you so long?
(She tears his clothes off and they tumble onto the bed.)
DATHAN: Korenna.
TORRES: Shush.

[B'Elanna's quarters]

CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna. B'Elanna, wake up.
TORRES: What.
CHAKOTAY: Your duty shift started twenty minutes ago. I tried to reach you on the comm. but you didn't answer.
TORRES: I guess, I guess I must have slept right through it. Sorry.
CHAKOTAY: Are you feeling all right?
TORRES: Yes, of course. I'll be there in a minute.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: This is the second morning you've been late.
TORRES: I'll make up the time. It won't happen again.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not concerned about the duty schedule, B'Elanna. If there's something wrong
TORRES: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Ah, you mean fine like when you insisted on finishing the hoverball championship with a broken ankle?
TORRES: I mean there's nothing wrong. I was only late because I've been having these dreams. They're very intense, that's all.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: Intensely bad?
TORRES: No, just the opposite.
CHAKOTAY: So they're enjoyable. Stimulating.
TORRES: They are the most sensual dreams I've ever had in my life. And they feel absolutely real.
CHAKOTAY: I don't suppose you've been dreaming about anyone in particular?
TORRES: Nobody you know. Actually, he's nobody I know, either. He's Enaran.
CHAKOTAY: One of our passengers?
TORRES: No. No. In the dreams, I know him. More than that, I'm in love with him. Oh, but it's not really me in the dream, it's somebody else entirely. In a way, it's liberating.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure. So I assume I won't have to write up a report on your chronic oversleeping?
TORRES: If you say a word about this to anyone
CHAKOTAY: I know. You'll rip my heart out and eat it raw. Your secret's safe with me.

[Corridor]

(In smart casual wear, coming out of the turbolift.)
KIM: So what exactly is this big surprise?
PARIS: All I know is that Neelix has been working on it all afternoon. He wouldn't even let me in there to get a snack.

[Mess hall]

(The place has been transformed. The tables and chairs are gone, replaced with cushions and drapes.)
NEELIX: Welcome to Enara!
PARIS: It's very colourful.
NEELIX: Specifically the colours of the Enaran flag. The decor, the menu, the music, all authentically Enaran.
KIM: What happened to the tables and chairs?
NEELIX: Enarans don't use them. After a big meal, you can just lie back and take a nap. Very practical.
PARIS: It's a little cold in here, isn't it?
NEELIX: Perhaps a bit chillier than you're used to, but just about perfect for
PARIS: The Enarans. I got it.
NEELIX: You must try some of these delightful algae puffs. They're fresh from the oven.
JESSEN: Harry.
KIM: Maybe later.
(Kim goes to sit next to Jessen. They are all listening to a man running his fingers over a large hemisphere in a piece of carved wood, similar in size and shape to a ukulele.)
JANEWAY: That was wonderful. What a lovely piece of music.
BREL: You should thank Jora Mirell. She composed it.
MIRELL: I still think you're rushing the harmonics in the second movement.
JANEWAY: I love music. I've always regretted that I never learnt to play an instrument.
BREL: I'd be glad to help you if you like.
JANEWAY: I'd like it very much. I'm sure I could find time for a few lessons.
(Janeway takes the instrument and runs her fingers over the dome, producing a tune. She doesn't know that Jor Brel is holding his hand out flat just behind her back. Suddenly, Janeway gasps and stops.)
TUVOK: Captain!
JANEWAY: I'm all right.
BREL: I did understand you correctly, that you wanted to share my knowledge of music?
JANEWAY: I didn't realise you were offering to share it so directly. The sensation was a little overwhelming.
BREL: I am terribly sorry, Captain. I assumed since you knew about our telepathic abilities, I. I never would have dreamed of making a connection without your consent.
JANEWAY: You intended to give me a gift, and it was wonderful.
TUVOK: Your abilities allow you to transfer knowledge from your own mind to another's?
BREL: Not precisely. We're able to share our experiences through a telepathic link.
JANEWAY: I remembered lessons, and hours of practice. Were those all your experiences?
TUVOK: Intriguing.
JANEWAY: Remarkable.
(Over by the counter, Chakotay has picked up a pair of small metal balls from a bowl.)
NEELIX: You take a couple of these, roll them around like this, and voila! Your hands are clean and disinfected. The Enarans are very hygienic. I haven't seen Lieutenant Torres around here tonight. I suppose she's putting in another late night in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I think she might have gone to bed early tonight.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]

(Korenna is getting a lecture from her father.)
JARETH: I'm not one to dictate who your friends are, but I'm sure you can see as clearly as I can that some friends are less suitable than others.
TORRES: Like Dathan?
JARETH: Yes. You promised you wouldn't see him anymore and then I heard you were talking to him again the other day.
TORRES: He came up to me on the street. I couldn't help it.
JARETH: Korenna, don't you see I am thinking of him as well as you? Now you only encourage him this way and that isn't very fair, is it?
TORRES: What isn't fair is that you treat him like everybody else. He's different. If you'd just talk to him you'd understand that.
JARETH: You know, one of the things I love about you most is your compassion for others. But you're still young, and you don't realise that there are some people who might take advantage of that compassion. Now, I want you to promise me if he comes up to you again you'll just walk away. That should be clear enough.
TORRES: I'm sure.
JARETH: And finish your tarin juice. It's good for you.
(Torres/Korenna takes a mouthful of the blue liquid and he leaves.)
TORRES: He's gone.
(Dathan comes out from behind the bathroom curtain.)
DATHAN: I should go.
TORRES: He's leaving for work soon. It's safer to wait.
DATHAN: You know, this will only encourage me.
TORRES: I hope so!
(Dathan nuzzles her neck, then Torres becomes alarmed and pushes him away. Dathan's face is burnt. Torres wakes up in fright.)

[Chakotay's office]

TORRES: We've completed the modifications on the primary EPS conduits. I have a crew starting on the backup systems.
CHAKOTAY: Can you get it done before we drop off the Enarans?
TORRES: Yes. We'll have to pull some longer shifts, but two more days should do it.
CHAKOTAY: Is there something else on your mind?
TORRES: Those dreams I've been having, they're getting kind of strange.
CHAKOTAY: In what way?
TORRES: Last night, in the middle of the dream, I was kissing him, my lover, and suddenly he was dead, burned.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna
TORRES: But there's more going on than just a love affair. I'm having a relationship with this man, but my father doesn't approve, so we have to sneak around. It's like each new dream advances the story.
CHAKOTAY: It sounds like a holonovel.
TORRES: It feels like it's actually happening! Physically, emotionally, it's no different from real life. I've never had dreams like this before.
CHAKOTAY: It can't be a coincidence that this is going on while we have a group of telepaths on board.
TORRES: Exactly. I want to find out more about what these Enarans can do.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you ask your friend in Engineering.
TORRES: I'm going to.
CHAKOTAY: I'll talk to the Captain. She should know anything that might involve our guests.
TORRES: Right.
(Torres walks out and down the corridor, and goes into -)

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]

(Jareth is at a podium, addressing a crowd of young people, including Korenna.)
JARETH: Once I stood where you are during the early days of interstellar exploration. It was an important leap forward for our people and I was proud to be part of it. Today, with the advent of terraforming, we stand ready to take another leap forward into an era of expansion and colonisation. You will show us the way. There are some who resist progress. Do not let the voices of fear and ignorance discourage you. Claim your rightful place as leaders of a new era. The future of Enara is in your hands. (applause) Now today we honour a group of young people who represent our best hope for that future. It is a great pleasure to give this first award to my own daughter, Korenna.
(She steps forward to have the medallion placed around her neck.)
JARETH: I'm so very proud of you.
(She meets Dathan in a shady colonnade at the side of the square.)
DATHAN: It looks good on you.
TORRES: What are you doing here?
DATHAN: Today's important for you and I wanted to be here.
TORRES: I'm glad you came. I know this award will help me get into the District Education Centre. I could be a junior instructor in less than a year.
DATHAN: I'm really happy for you.
TORRES: Maybe you could take the entrance examination too.
DATHAN: It's impossible. I can't go to the Centre.
TORRES: Nothing is impossible if you want it badly enough. I want us to be together.
DATHAN: I love you, Korenna. It's just so frustrating. I can't stand being away from you all the time.
TORRES: Oh, I know.
DATHAN: Oh, I wish I could hold you right now.
TORRES: What would you do if you could?
DATHAN: I'll show you.
(He places his hand on her back. Then a bell sounds.)
DATHAN: I'll see you tonight.
TORRES: No, no. There's going to be a big dinner with my father's friends.
DATHAN: Tomorrow night then.
TORRES: Tomorrow.
(Dathan leaves her to join a line of Enarans walking past guards, and having their IDs scanned. The bell must be a curfew for the lower orders.)
GUARD: Have your identification ready.
GUARD 2: Come on, this way, this way.
GUARD: All the way out. Let's move.
(The gates close behind Dathan.)

[Corridor]

(Kes finds Torres passed out in the corridor.)
KES: B'Elanna, can you hear me? Kes to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH shines a light in Torres' eye, and she sits up.)
EMH: Good to see you're awake, Lieutenant.
TORRES: What happened?
KES: I found you unconscious in the corridor near Engineering.
TORRES: I was dreaming again.
EMH: Not according to your cortical theta wave readings. The pattern clearly indicated that you were experiencing memories. Specifically, implanted memories.
TORRES: Implanted? By the Enarans?
EMH: There's strong evidence of telepathic activity in your frontal lobe.
JANEWAY: My experience with the Enaran's telepathy seems to be very different from yours. Jor Brel was standing near me when I received his memories. Where there any Enarans near you when you had your dreams?
TORRES: No, I was alone every time.
JANEWAY: You've also been asleep or unconscious every time. The shared memories feel like vivid dreams to you.
EMH: In the Lieutenant's case, the memories seem to have been placed in her unconscious. They're only emerging when her conscious mind is inactive.
KES: Why did she pass out?
EMH: The synaptic patterns of the implanted memories are not quite compatible with her neural pathways. There's been some minor cortical damage which I've corrected.
JANEWAY: Can you prevent further damage?
EMH: This inhibitor will control her theta wave activity. That should suppress the memories.
TORRES: I won't have any more of the dreams?
EMH: That's the idea.
(Torres recoils from the inhibitor.)
KES: What's wrong?
TORRES: If the dreams stop, I'll never know what happens to these people. This woman, Korenna, I feel what she feels, and right now she is torn and confused about her loyalties and I don't know what I'm, she's going to do.
EMH: I don't think satisfying your curiosity is worth risking brain damage, Lieutenant.
(The EMH fits the inhibitor behind Torres' left ear.)
JANEWAY: I'm giving you the next two days off duty. Use them to rest. I'll speak with Brel and find out what's happening to you.
TORRES: I'd like to come with you, Captain. I'd rest a lot better if I had some answers.

[Ready room]

BREL: I find it impossible that any of us could be doing this purposely.
TUVOK: You do possess the ability to share your experiences without mutual consent.
BREL: Yes, but it just isn't done. I know that we had a misunderstanding before, Captain, but I assure you we have strict ethics.
JANEWAY: We're not suggesting otherwise. We're only trying to find out how this is happening.
BREL: Well, I have heard of instances where members of some alien races have been affected by the slight telepathic field we generate, but nothing as intense as what your Lieutenant has described.
JANEWAY: And according to our doctor, they're memories.
BREL: That's possible. She may be picking up stray thoughts and memories from every Enaran on the ship. Must be terribly confusing. Perhaps that's why her mind has organised it into a kind of narrative.
TORRES: Are you saying that I'm making this all up?
BREL: No, no, no. Some elements may very well have come from our actual experiences. I confess I may have crawled into a bedroom window or two in my youth. You mentioned a citizenship award. There are several past recipients in our group. We may be each contributing some small details to your story.
TORRES: Nothing really happened the way I remember it?
BREL: It's highly unlikely.
JANEWAY: We appreciate your help, Jor Brel.
BREL: I wish there was something more that I could do. I truly regret any ill effects that our presence here has caused you.
JANEWAY: Well fortunately those effects are under control now. The doctor was able to suppress the memories.
BREL: I'm very glad to hear that.
(Jor Brel leaves.)
TUVOK: His explanation is plausible.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I don't know. Those dreams are so real. Maybe he's right.
JANEWAY: The Enarans haven't shown any hint of subterfuge, any hidden agenda. They've been nothing but straight forward and honest. You're in no immediate danger, and they'll be gone in another day. The situation will resolve itself.
TUVOK: And yet you fully intend to continue investigating.
JANEWAY: I wonder how long it's been since I did anything that surprised you?
TUVOK: I share your concern, Captain. We haven't ruled out the possibility that this may be a deliberate act.
JANEWAY: I want to talk to more of the Enarans, see what they have to say.
TORRES: I'll talk to Jessen and Mirell. They've been working with me in Engineering.
JANEWAY: You've done enough already, B'Elanna. I want you to get some rest.
TORRES: But
JANEWAY: You need to get away from this. We'll take it from here.

Captain's log, stardate 50211.4. We're approaching Enara and preparing to host a farewell party for our guests. They've made every effort to help us understand their telepathic abilities, but it's still a mystery why they've affected Lieutenant Torres so strongly.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]

(Torres takes off her inhibitor and lies down on her bed. Almost immediately, she is Korenna, sitting at her dressing table.)
JARETH: Korenna, are you ready? You'll do well. I'll be there with you.
TORRES: This is all voluntary, isn't it? They want to be resettled.
JARETH: Of course. Although it's impossible to understand what these Regressives want. They simply don't think like we do. How do we relate to people who refuse all but the most primitive technology? Who live their lives without a communications interlink or microfusion generators?
TORRES: If that's the way they want to live, why can't they?
JARETH: Well, they can. That's why we're helping them to resettle. So that they can be completely comfortable practicing a way of life that they've chosen.
TORRES: They could do that here, in their village.
JARETH: Well, you wouldn't say that if you'd ever been inside that place. Do you realise they won't even use radioseptics to sterilise their homes or their hands before they eat? It's a miracle they haven't started a plague by now.
TORRES: Then it's dangerous to have them living here.
JARETH: Yes, it is, and we've been tolerant for a very long time, but I think by now even they realise that they'd be better off living somewhere else.
TORRES: But some of them want to stay here.
JARETH: Well, there are always some people who resist change even if they know it's best for them, and once they see their friends and family happily settled in a new colony, they'll want to go as well.

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]

GUARD: Demelos!
GUARD 2: Demelos, move along.
(Korenna checks the young man's ID as he enters the square.)
GUARD: Sanric. Farran.
(The young woman speaks to Korenna.)
FARRAN: What's going to happen to us?
TORRES: You'll have a new place to live with your own kind. You'll be much happier there.
FARREN: Please, can you tell me
GUARD: Move along
FARREN: I only want to know where we're going!
(She is moved on roughly by a guard.)
GUARD: Lishan. Alaris. Dathan Alaris!
(Korenna goes to the gate.)
JARETH: Where is he?
TORRES: He couldn't be leaving today.
JARETH: Did you warn him? Did you tell him he was on the list?
TORRES: I didn't even know that he was. You put his name there, didn't you. To keep him away from me?
WOMAN: Don't! No!
(Korenna is hit by an unwilling transportee, and falls to the ground with a big cut on her face.)

[B'Elanna's quarters]

(Torres wakes up.)
TORRES: Computer, locate Jora Mirell.
COMPUTER: Jora Mirell is in her quarters.

[Mirell's quarters]

(Jora does not answer her knocks, so Torres overrides the door controls and enters. She finds the old woman lying on the floor.)
TORRES: I'll get you to Sickbay.
MIRELL: No. I have to give you the rest of it.
TORRES: You are Korenna? These are your memories.
MIRELL: Yes.
TORRES: Why give them to me?
MIRELL: You won't deny the truth. We've been hiding it. I couldn't anymore. When they found out I was sharing it with you
TORRES: Who did?
MIRELL: Don't let the memories die. Promise me!
TORRES: I don't understand.
(Mirell grabs Torres and pulls her close.)

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]

(Korenna is playing the Enaran instrument when she hears tapping at her bathroom window. She lets Dathan in.)
TORRES: My father's home. If he hears you
DATHAN: What happened?
TORRES: One of your friends made some trouble on the resettlement line today. You were on the list, too. Where were you?
DATHAN: Some of us got away. We're leaving tonight. Come with me. Korenna, it's the only way we can be together now.
TORRES: You're asking me to abandon my family, my career.
DATHAN: Yes, I am! Leave it all behind. What's happening here is wrong, Korenna. Don't be a part of it any more.
TORRES: It's just a resettlement.
DATHAN: It's more than that. My uncle and his family were resettled two months ago and we haven't heard from them since. Nobody I know has had any contact with this new colony we're supposed to be going to.
TORRES: There could be a perfectly good reason for that.
DATHAN: There are stories. I've heard that the transports don't really go anywhere, that the passengers just get vaporised in some kind of thermal sweep. Korenna, thousands of us have gone already. We're being slaughtered.
TORRES: It's ridiculous! No one is being killed. My father told me about
DATHAN: Your father is lying to you. I'm sorry, but you have got to make a choice. You can't go on trying to believe in both of us anymore. Either he is right and you should never see me again, or I'm right and he is part of a terrible crime.
TORRES: No, my father is a good man.
DATHAN: I can show you how we're rounded up for these voluntary resettlements, how the soldiers treat Regressives who won't go quietly. I know it is hard to face, but you have to. It is too important. Now, let me show you.
TORRES: No, I
JARETH [OC]: Korenna!
(She hides Dathan in the bathroom.)
TORRES: Come in. I was just practising.
JARETH: I've always said you have the talent to play professionally. How are you feeling?
TORRES: I've been better.
JARETH: Well, don't think about it any more. That Regressive was completely irrational. He attacked you for no reason.
TORRES: Maybe he thought he had a reason. Maybe he was afraid.
JARETH: I know there are some very disturbing rumours coming from these people. You may have heard them from that boy. You know, the thing that is so insidious about these Regressives is that they pretend to be passive, not harming anyone, and all the while they're spreading their lies, trying to make you believe these awful things.
TORRES: Why would they do that?
JARETH: They have some twisted ideas about resisting progress, which they think gives them the right to hold us back in any way that they can. They're trying to undermine us, to cause dissent and doubt. Just look at how they've affected you.
TORRES: But, what they're saying is so horrible.
JARETH: Yes, but it isn't very plausible. Korenna, think. A secret conspiracy against their people? Organised murder on such an enormous scale? Do you really believe that your family and friends are capable of that?
TORRES: No.
JARETH: Of course not. Now I know how hard it is for you to accept that anyone, even Regressives, could lie about something like that, but it is all part of their manipulation. These people have no conscience. They'll say anything to get what they want. Like that boy Dathan. Has he told you he's in love with you? He's not. It's his way of gaining your sympathy. And not only yours. I've seen him talking to quite a number of young women. Has he been asking you to trust him? He's poisoning you against your own people, even your own family. That's very cruel. No wonder you've been confused. But now you understand what these people are really like.
(In tears, Korenna looks towards her bathroom. Jareth follows her gaze, gets up and pulls the curtains aside.)
JARETH: You!
DATHAN [OC]: No! No! No!
(Jareth marches Dathan out, arms held behind his back.)

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]

(Dathan and the man who hit Korenna are fastened to posts.)
JARETH: These criminals represent a growing threat to Enaran society. As responsible citizens we must fight back. With their punishment we send a clear signal to all Regressives. We will protect ourselves and our ideals from their destructive influence by whatever means necessary.
(At a signal from Jareth, the posts that the men are fastened to glow purple. The crowd bay for their blood as they slump forward, burned. Korenna finally joins in.)
TORRES: Yes! Yes! Yes!

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square a few years later]

CHILD: Why did they all move away?
TORRES: Because they didn't want to live with the rest of us anymore.
CHILD: Why?
TORRES: The Regressive people had very strange ideas about how to live. They didn't want to learn new things or use any of the new technology that we tried to share with them. They decided to live somewhere else on their own and we let them go. But they couldn't take very good care of themselves. They fought with each other, they spread all kinds of diseases.
CHILD: And they all died?
TORRES: They destroyed themselves. It was very sad. But we can learn from their mistakes. That's why we keep this gate here, to remind us never to be stubborn and backward like they were.
CHILD: We'll remember.
TORRES: I know you will.
(Torres wakes up. Mirell is dead.)

[Mess hall]

(In orbit of Enara.)
BREL: I'd like to indulge in a new custom I've learnt. It's called making a toast. Captain Janeway and her gracious crew. We are very grateful to you for bringing us home. You will always have friends here.
(Torres enters.)
TORRES: Murderers!
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
TORRES: You tried to hide what you did, but I know. I saw everything. The Regressives, the executions, wiping out an entire population and then blaming them for it.
BREL: This is most uncomfortable, Captain. Perhaps a more private discussion would be
TORRES: No, that's what you've been doing all along. Hiding the truth. Hoping it would just die away quietly. Please, this has to come out.
JANEWAY: I think it's time we all understood what's been happening here.
TORRES: My dreams. They are real memories from Jora Mirell. When she, when all of them were younger, there was a group of people they called Regressives. They just wanted to lead a different kind of life. But, but they don't exist anymore, do they? You exterminated them.
BREL: These accusations are completely untrue.
TORRES: You've spent you whole life covering it up, but then you realised that someone was passing the memories on to me, so you, you used me to figure out who it was and then you killed her. But you know, you were too late. Because Korenna gave me the last of her memories before she died.
BREL: Korenna Mirell is dead?
CHAKOTAY: And you have evidence that she was murdered?
TORRES: No. They made it look like it was natural causes.
TUVOK: You should know, Lieutenant, that I spoke with Jora Mirell yesterday. I asked her specifically about the memories you had experienced. She claimed not to know anything about them.
TORRES: Of course she would say that. She was afraid for her life.
JESSEN: No, you lying. The Enarans would never do anything like what you're saying. It's unthinkable.
TORRES: It is the truth. I know that you don't want to believe it. In fact, they're counting on that. They always have.
KIM: I know B'Elanna and I trust her. It can't hurt to listen.
BREL: Nobody thinks you're lying, Lieutenant. The poor woman has been ill for a long time. Her memories may be distorted or perhaps your perception of them was coloured by elements from your culture.
TORRES: No. I know that it's easier for you to believe that I'm crazy or hallucinating, but this woman shared her life, her whole identity with me. I was with her every step of the way as she convinced herself that what she did, betraying the man she loved, playing her part in a massacre, that it was all somehow for the good of Enaran society. She showed me everything. No apologies, no request for forgiveness, just the truth. At least she had the conscience to stand up and realise what she'd done wrong, which is more than I can say for you.
BREL: I think it best that we now prepare for our departure, Captain. If you don't mind, I'd like to go to your sickbay to attend Jora Mirell.
(Jor Brel leaves. Janeway speaks to Torres.)
JANEWAY: I'm going to talk to the Doctor. I want to see you in my Ready room in one hour.

[Ready room]

TORRES: I know that I could have found a better way to handle the situation than just charging into the mess hall like that. I was just too angry to think straight. Not the first time that's happened, I know, but if you had seen what I saw
JANEWAY: I might have done exactly the same thing.
TORRES: You believe me.
JANEWAY: I believe that the memories you experienced were real.
TORRES: Then we've got to do something about it. We have to make this public.
JANEWAY: You tried that today, They didn't want to listen.
TORRES: Then we have to find proof. Let me go down to the planet. There must be some evidence left of what really happened. Maybe there are other people like Korenna who might be willing to tell the truth.
JANEWAY: Whatever the Enarans have done, it's not our place to bring them to justice. If they've chosen to conceal part of their history from their own descendants, that's their decision, whether we approve of it or not.
TORRES: It's not just a matter of history. This could happen again if no one knows it happened before.
JANEWAY: We simply have no right to get involved.
TORRES: Jora Mirell was murdered on board this ship, which gives us a reason to investigate. Maybe, if we can expose the reason why she was killed, the Enarans will start to ask questions.
JANEWAY: I've gotten a full report from the Doctor. He specifically looked for evidence to support your accusations. He didn't find any.
TORRES: They could have used their telepathy somehow, in some way that the Doctor couldn't detect.
JANEWAY: We have no basis for a murder investigation. I've released her body to the Enarans.
TORRES: So that's it? We just go on our merry way and nobody ever has to take any kind of responsibility?
JANEWAY: I've cancelled our trade negotiations as well as shore leave. We'll leave orbit as soon as the Enarans are off the ship. B'Elanna, I believe the Enaran engineers are collecting the last of their equipment right now. If there's anything more you'd like to say to any of them?
TORRES: Thank you. Thank you, Captain.

[Engineering]

(A guard is watching the Enarans.)
TORRES: I'm relieving you. Can we talk for a minute?
JESSEN: I have nothing to say to you.
TORRES: Then just listen. Like Harry said, it couldn't hurt to do that.
JESSEN: I'm leaving soon.
TORRES: I know you have no reason to believe what I've said about your people. All you have is my word against everything you've ever been taught.
JESSEN: That's right.
TORRES: So prove me wrong. Go down to Enara and find the colony where the Regressives were supposed to live. Talk to people. Ask questions. Learn the truth for yourself. Let me tell you about my experiences, maybe that will give you some place to start. I wish I had your abilities. I could just show you.
JESSEN: You would do that? Share your experiences openly?
TORRES: Of course. Then you'd know I'm telling you the truth.
JESSEN: I can make the connection between us.
(Jessen stands and places her hand on Torres' back.)

[Korenna's memories - Bedroom]

(She is woken by a tapping on the bathroom window. She goes and lets Dathan in.)
JESSEN: What took you so long?


S3 E7
Sacred Ground
Stardate: 50063.2
Original Airdate: October 30 1996

Captain's log, stardate 50063.2. We've accepted an invitation from the Nechani to take a few days shore leave on their world. We're enjoying the opportunity to learn about their culture.
[Sanctuary]

(A dark cavern and tunnel structure with lights on the walls.)
MAGISTRATE: This sanctuary honours our Ancestral Spirits. Their presence is very strong here.
(Two robed figures stop and bow to them.)
MAGISTRATE: Those are brothers of the Nechisti Order. They've devoted their lives to serving the spirits. Here's something you might find interesting.
(He leads Janeway and Tuvok on. Neelix and Kes lag behind.)
KES: What do you think this means?
NEELIX: Hard to tell. A fertility symbol, maybe.
KES: Or a blessing for good luck, or wisdom.
NEELIX: Or happiness and love.
KES: Do you hear something?
NEELIX: What?
(They go back to a side cave with a bright light shining from a platform at the top of a short flight of steps.)
KES: Look at that. It's beautiful.
NEELIX: It looks like a shrine. Come on, sweeting, we don't want to be left behind.
KES: I just want to take a quick look.
(Kes goes up the steps and gets zapped by an energy field. She rolls back down, unconscious.)
NEELIX: Kes! Kes, can you hear me? Help! Somebody! We need help!
(Torres and Kim are first on the scene.)
TORRES: What happened?
MAGISTRATE: You mustn't be here. This shrine is protected.
NEELIX: She didn't touch anything. She went as far as that archway and then an energy field knocked her down.
TORRES: Torres to Voyager. We have a medical emergency. Beam Kes and Neelix directly to sickbay.
CREWMAN [OC]: Yes, Lieutenant.
(Kes and Neelix are beamed out. A pair of monks arrive.)
MAGISTRATE: This is most unfortunate. Please, I must ask you to leave as well.
TORRES: We aren't going anywhere until we find out what happened to her. What kind of energy was she exposed to?
MAGISTRATE: I have no idea. This is a sacred place. Only the monks truly understand what happens here.
KIM: Then we'll bring scanning equipment down and investigate for ourselves.
MAGISTRATE: That's out of the question. It would show disrespect to the spirits.
TORRES: One of our crew has been critically injured. We aren't going to stand by and do nothing.
MAGISTRATE: There's nothing you can do. She's been punished by the spirits. She's going to die.
TORRES: If you prevent us from helping Kes, we will hold you directly responsible for anything that happens to her.
KIM: I will make a full report to our Captain. I'm sure you'll be hearing from her.
MAGISTRATE: I'll be happy to talk to her and do whatever I can to help, but your presence here only makes a delicate situation worse. Please, leave now.

[Sickbay]

(Janeway enters. Neelix is at Kes' bedside.)
EMH: Her lifesigns are very weak but stable. It appears that her synaptic pathways have undergone severe neuraleptic shock which is disrupting all cortical functions. It is similar to a comatose state, but with none of the usual biochemical markers.
NEELIX: You can cure her, can't you?
EMH: I can't even speculate on a treatment until I know more about what caused her condition.
JANEWAY: We're working on that. We aren't allowed near the area where the accident occurred, but Kim and Torres are scanning the sanctuary from Voyager. They'll report their findings to you. And I have an appointment to talk to the magistrate. I'm hoping he'll be able to cut through some of the restrictions the monks have set up.
NEELIX: Excuse me, Captain. I'd like to do something to help.
JANEWAY: The Nechani must have records, some kind of scientific data on this energy field. Go down to the planet and see what you can find.
NEELIX: (to Kes) I'll be back soon.

[Ready room]

MAGISTRATE: Please understand, Captain, I'm caught in a most difficult situation. I'm an official of the government, not a spiritual leader. I don't pretend to understand why the spirits do what they do.
JANEWAY: Then perhaps I could talk with the brothers.
MAGISTRATE: I've asked the Nechisti Council to give you an audience, but I'm afraid they consider the matter closed. They've asked me to express their sympathies for your loss.
JANEWAY: There is no loss at this point. Kes is still alive. Surely there's some way to treat her? Can't you insist that the monks meet with me?
MAGISTRATE: We have an agreement with Council. They don't involve themselves with government and we don't interfere in their spiritual matters. It's been that way for centuries and it's always worked well for us.
JANEWAY: Then can you tell me what you do know about the sanctuary and what happens there?
MAGISTRATE: I'll try. That particular shrine is where the monks go to receive the gift of purification, cleansing of the soul. It is one of our most holy places.
JANEWAY: You mean the monks can enter it without being harmed.
MAGISTRATE: They prepare themselves with a sacred ritual during which they speak directly with the Ancestral Spirits. After that they are able to enter the shrine safely.
JANEWAY: What happens in that ritual? How does it offer protection against the energy field?
MAGISTRATE: Captain, you seem to want explanations for everything. I don't have them. Only the brothers who've gone through the ritual know what happens there, and they're sworn to secrecy.
JANEWAY: The energy field that Kes encountered, is there anyone who could give me scientific information that would help us analyse it.
MAGISTRATE: All we know is that it is a naturally occurring phenomenon.
JANEWAY: If you're telling me that there's nothing you can do to help Kes, I simply won't accept that.
MAGISTRATE: If I could help you, I would. I swear it. I blame myself. If I'd watched more carefully, seen that she was approaching the shrine. There's nothing more to be done now. You have our sympathy.

[Doctor's office]

JANEWAY: Have Kim and Torres given you a report?
EMH: Yes. I received a fascinating lesson in the challenges of getting clear scanner readings through solid rock. We were eventually able to distinguish an intense biogenic field at the site of Kes's accident. That would certainly explain the neuraleptic shock. She was lucky not to have been killed instantly.
JANEWAY: As I understand it, the Nechani monks are able to enter the field without being harmed at all.
EMH: Really? I don't expect they'd care to tell us how.
JANEWAY: No, they wouldn't.
(Neelix enters Sickbay and goes to Kes' bedside.)
EMH: She's not responding to conventional treatments, and frankly I'm running out of unconventional ideas as well. The level of activity in her brain is so low I can't rule out the possibility of permanent damage, even if I can revive her. The longer she stays in this condition, the less likely it is she'll ever recover.

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: How is she?
EMH: I'm afraid there's been no change.
NEELIX: I've researched everything I could find about the sacred shrine. I didn't uncover much scientific evidence, but there was one story, it was in a very old text, I'm not sure how reliable, about a boy who recovered from a condition like Kes's. He was a young prince. He wandered into the shrine accidentally and he went into a death sleep. Everyone said it was the will of the spirits. His father, King Nevad, refused to accept that, so he went through the ritual to seek an audience with the spirits and he pleaded for his son's life. The spirits in their infinite mercy granted his request. That was the only trace of hope that I could find.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's enough.

[Bridge]

MAGISTRATE [on viewscreen]: Well, you've certainly done your research, Captain. I'm familiar with the story. I heard it as a child.
JANEWAY: It suggests that there's still a chance for Kes.
MAGISTRATE [on viewscreen]: You're talking about a very specific case. Nevad was able to claim responsibility for the prince as a father and as a king. That's why the spirits were willing to listen to him.
JANEWAY: The Captain of a starship is fully responsible for every member of her crew.
MAGISTRATE [on viewscreen]: So she is.
JANEWAY: And on that basis, I'd like to go through the ritual myself.

[Chakotay's office]

JANEWAY: I haven't heard from the Magistrate yet, but he seemed to think there was a strong possibility the monks would let me go through the ritual.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, forgive me, but you've never been one to put much trust in religious ceremonies. Exactly what is it you hope to accomplish?
JANEWAY: If you're asking if I expect to speak to the Ancestral Spirits, no, of course not. But something happens to the monks when they go through the ritual. Something that allows them to withstand the effects of the biogenic field. I want to find out what that is. It might provide clues to a treatment.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of physiological change, maybe.
JANEWAY: That's what I'm guessing. The shamans of the Karis tribe on Delios Seven practice a ritual that increases the electrical resistance of their skin. It protects them from plasma discharges in their sacred caves. Something similar must happen during this ritual.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to find a way to allow the Doctor to monitor your physical condition, and you should have a way to call for an emergency beam out if you need it. As a precaution. We don't have any idea what the ritual entails.
JANEWAY: I've been reviewing the Federation's cultural database. Most traditional spirit quest ceremonies involve some kind of physical challenge or test of endurance to prove the mastery of spirit over body. My instinct tells me this one will be similar. A series of ordeals that will result in biochemical changes.
CHAKOTAY: Of course there's always the possibility that the Ancestral Spirits really do control what happens in the shrine.
JANEWAY: To each his own, Commander, but I imagine if we scratch deep enough we'd find a scientific basis for most religious doctrines.
CHAKOTAY: I remember when my mother taught me the science underlying the vision quest. In a way I felt disappointed. Some of the mystery was gone. Maybe the Nechani have chosen not to lose the mystery.
JANEWAY: Under other circumstances I'd be more than happy to go along with their choice. Right now, it's killing one of my crew.
KIM [OC]: Bridge to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
Kim [OC]]: You have an incoming message from the Magistrate.
JANEWAY: Put it through to Chakotay's office.
KIM [OC]: Aye, Captain.
MAGISTRATE [on monitor]: I must congratulate you, Captain. Your creative approach to this problem has fascinated the Nechisti Council.
JANEWAY: Then they've approved my request.
MAGISTRATE [on monitor]: Eagerly. They consider it an honour that you want to seek the spirits. The ritual traditionally begins at sunset. A guide will meet you at the entrance to the sanctuary.
JANEWAY: Thank you. I appreciate your efforts.
MAGISTRATE [on monitor]: I have been greatly troubled by your misfortune, Captain. If you are able to convince the spirits to spare your friend, no one would be happier than I.

[Transporter room]

EMH [on monitor]: Everything seems to be working. The sub-dermal bioprobe will transmit any changes in your biochemistry.
KIM: And Captain, the implant also contains a homing beacon which we'll be able to pick up no matter how far into the sanctuary you go. Just tap it like a comm. badge and we'll transport you immediately.
JANEWAY: Thank you both.
(She goes to the platform. Tuvok offers her a phaser.)
JANEWAY: I don't think that will be necessary.
TUVOK: It is standard procedure to carry arms on an away mission, particularly when you don't know what to expect.
JANEWAY: This is strictly an information gathering mission. I don't want to appear hostile. Energise.

[Sanctuary]

(Monks walk past, ignoring Janeway. Nearby, a woman is working on a blinking light in an alcove. Janeway takes out her tricorder and starts scanning.)
GUIDE: I don't suppose you know anything about chromodynamic lights?
JANEWAY: No, not really. I suppose I could look at it.
GUIDE: They're as fussy as tarchee cats. You tune them too high, they burn out. You tune them too low, they sputter. I've told the monks to replace them all with neodyne lights, it would save hours of repair work. That device you've got, what is that?
JANEWAY: It's called a tricorder.
GUIDE: A tricorder. What exactly does a tricorder do?
JANEWAY: It's a scanning device.
GUIDE: Interesting. May I? Ah, atmospheric reading, energy field analysis, full technical database. This is certainly a convenient thing to have.
(The guide puts in in her robe pocket.)
JANEWAY: Oh, I'd didn't mean for you to keep it. I'll need that back.
GUIDE: Oh no, you won't.
JANEWAY: You're my guide.
GUIDE: Guide, advisor, spiritual companion. Whatever term you prefer is fine with me.
JANEWAY: Why didn't you say something earlier?
GUIDE: Shall we get started?
(She leads Janeway down the tunnels. Two young women approach and touch Janeway's hair.)
GUIDE: It's all right, Kathryn.
(Janeway allows them to unpin her bun and remove her uniform. Once she is naked, they paint designs on her face and body, then put a simple brown robe on her.)
JANEWAY: Would it be breaking any vows of secrecy now to tell me what this ritual will involve?
GUIDE: why do you think I know?
JANEWAY: Haven't you been through this before?
GUIDE: Don't worry, I'll help you find your way. Tell me, have you completely committed yourself to this journey?
JANEWAY: Yes.
GUIDE: You're willing to go through what the monks have been doing for centuries to help them find the spirits?
JANEWAY: Yes.
GUIDE: So you can send biochemical data back to you ship. No, it wasn't magic. Our bioscanners detected the microprobe under your skin.
JANEWAY: I hope that won't be a problem.
GUIDE: Makes no difference at all. You are fond of your little devices, aren't you.
JANEWAY: They've always served me well.
GUIDE: I'm sure they have. Please, come this way.

[Waiting Room]

(There are pensioners sitting on a bench by the wall.)
OLD MAN 1: Who are you?
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway. Is this where the ritual begins?
OLD MAN 2: Oh, the ritual. Yes.
OLD WOMAN: We're waiting. Come, join us.
JANEWAY: What exactly are you waiting for?
OLD MAN 2: Just waiting.
JANEWAY: How long have you been sitting here?
OLD MAN 2: How long has it been?
OLD MAN 1: Why are your asking me? I've lost track.
OLD MAN 2: It's been a while. I know that.
OLD WOMAN: Oh, it's been as long as we can remember.
JANEWAY: Are you telling me I have to wait a lifetime before I can go through the ritual?
OLD MAN 1: I didn't hear anyone say that, did you?
OLD MAN 2: Certainly not. All we said was that we're waiting.
JANEWAY: I'm just trying to understand how this works. The monks I saw in the sanctuary were young. They couldn't have waited such a long time to go through their rituals.
OLD WOMAN: She's right about that, you know.
OLD MAN 2: She's a smart one.
OLD MAN 1: She thinks she is, at any rate.
JANEWAY: This is a test of some kind, isn't it. To prove my determination.
OLD WOMAN: A test? She thinks we're a test. What is she talking about?
OLD MAN 2: She must like tests. I suppose tests make sense to her.
JANEWAY: Has anyone ever tried to open this door?
OLD MAN 1: How many times do we have to tell you that we are waiting?
OLD WOMAN: My dear, why don't you just sit down and relax? You're much too tense.
OLD MAN 2: You're welcome to wait with us.
JANEWAY: I don't want to wait. I have a friend who's depending on me. I have to go through the ritual.
OLD MAN 1: I wonder if she's always this impatient.
OLD MAN 2: Oh, she's just determined. She wants to get on with it.
OLD WOMAN: Seems to me she could be friendly and sit for a few minutes.
OLD MAN 2: Oh no, she knows what she wants to do. She's not the kind to sit around when she has a mission to accomplish.
(Janeway tries to open the door at the other end of the room.)
OLD MAN 1: I told you. I told you it was locked.
(Janeway knocks on the door three times and it opens.)
GUIDE: Yes?
JANEWAY: I mean no disrespect, but unless there's something I'm supposed to accomplish here, I'd like to continue with the ritual.
GUIDE: By all means.

[Ritual room]

(Steps lead up to a platform.)
JANEWAY: I'm not sure how to begin.
GUIDE: Do you want me to give you orders, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'll do whatever you ask of me.
GUIDE: I see. So you think this is just a matter of doing what you're told.
JANEWAY: No. I'm sure there's spiritual significance behind the challenges involved.
GUIDE: Challenges. That's what you expect?
JANEWAY: I don't have any idea what to expect. I've studied a number of ritualistic societies and many of the rites have commonalities. This one may be completely different. I'm willing to do whatever is necessary.
GUIDE: I don't doubt that. But do you realise that all of this is meaningless. That the only thing that matters is finding your connection to the spirits.
JANEWAY: I'm going to make every effort to do that. But I didn't come here for personal enlightenment. I'm trying to save a member of my crew.
GUIDE: That's a worthy cause. I hope the spirits listen to you. Then let's begin. The first challenge. Stand like this.
(Right foot slightly in front of the left, knees bent.)
GUIDE: Hold that. (up at eye level) Now, what do you see in your hands?
JANEWAY: I see a stone.
GUIDE: Keep looking.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Her respiration and pulse have remained steady, but there's been a gradual build up of lactic acid in her extensor muscles over the last hour.
CHAKOTAY: What does that mean? Is she in danger?
EMH: Not at all. She's probably experiencing light strain. What you'd expect in an endurance ritual.
CHAKOTAY: Then there's nothing so far that would suggest a treatment for Kes.
EMH: It's too early to tell. I'm downloading every iota of information from the bioprobe sensors into a physiometric programme which is analysing the data. Even the smallest physiological change may prove significant. We can't discount anything.

[Ritual room]

(The strain of holding up the large stone is telling on Janeway.)
GUIDE: What do you see now?
JANEWAY: I still see a stone.
(Later, it is finger-painting.)
JANEWAY: I guess you're not going to tell me what I'm supposed to draw.
GUIDE: That would be too easy, wouldn't it? It's up to you. Draw whatever feels right.
JANEWAY: I've never been able to draw. My sister was the artist in the family.
GUIDE: And you were the scientist.
JANEWAY: It's true. When other children were outside playing games I was doing mathematics problems.
GUIDE: Mathematics. I can see why you enjoyed it. Solve a problem, get an answer. The answer's either right or wrong. It's very absolute.
JANEWAY: I've always found that satisfying.
GUIDE: I'm sure you did.
(Next it is rock-climbing over a chasm, then we are back to holding the stone, which is glowing for Janeway.)
GUIDE: What did you see?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure.
GUIDE: Describe it.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Ah ha!
NEELIX: What? What is it? What have you found?
EMH: There have been significant increases in the Captain's respiration, neuropeptides and adenosine triphosphate levels.
NEELIX: Is that bad?
EMH: It certainly suggests she's going through a gruelling experience. But it's the neuropeptides that are interesting. The saturations have risen to quite an abnormal level.
NEELIX: Is that good or bad?
EMH: I can't say it's either so far as the Captain's concerned, but it certainly seems a substantial piece of information. Neuropeptide levels this high could well create a natural barrier to biogenic energy.
NEELIX: So you have something that will help Kes.
EMH: Not yet, but it's the first piece of data that allows me even to formulate a hypothesis.
NEELIX: It should be me going through all that! I was the one who let Kes get hurt in the first place.
EMH: Mister Neelix, you're wallowing.
NEELIX: I'm wallowing?
EMH: In useless remorse. I'll have to ask you to stop, it's bad for the patient.
NEELIX: It's just frustrating to be so helpless.
EMH: If it's any consolation, Mister Neelix, I do understand.

[Ritual room]

JANEWAY: I'm exhausted. Oh, thank you.
(The guide gives her a cup of water.)
GUIDE: Your microprobe should be transmitting all kinds of interesting information back to the ship.
JANEWAY: What is that?
(Something hisses in a basket.)
GUIDE: It's a nesset. They're able to travel from this world into the spirit realm. They serve as gatekeepers.
JANEWAY: Gatekeepers? Then I'm ready to enter the spirit realm?
GUIDE: Do you think you're ready?
JANEWAY: Yes, I do.
GUIDE: Then you are. Go ahead, put your hand in.
(Janeway reaches towards the basket, and the thing inside hisses and spits.)
GUIDE: We can stop right now if you like.
JANEWAY: No, I'm not quitting.
(Janeway puts her hand through the slit in the top of the basket, and gets bitten. She pulls her hand out with a cry. There are three large puncture wounds on the inside of her elbow.)
GUIDE: Don't be afraid.
JANEWAY: Oh, it's burning. Oh, my chest, very tight.
(Janeway faints, and remembers what she has been through so far.)
KES [OC]: Captain. Captain.
GUIDE: Kathryn.
(Janeway is lying in a sarcophagus-like chamber at the top of the steps.)
JANEWAY: I'm dying.
GUIDE: Everyone dies eventually.
(The lid closes over her.)

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: It's been three days since she had any sleep. How long are we going to let her go through this?
EMH: I understand your concern, Commander, but I must point out that her vital signs are stable. She seems to be in no immediate danger.
CHAKOTAY: She's been poisoned by some unknown toxin. It may be having an effect we can't gauge. It could lie dormant for a few days and then suddenly fluctuate and kill her in minutes.
EMH: You seem to be implying that I'm not paying attention. I assure you I am monitoring her constantly. If I thought she were in jeopardy I would act.
TUVOK: Doctor, is there anything that might be preventing her from using the homing signal in her implant?
EMH: Not that I'm aware of. She's fully conscious and has complete motor control. If she wanted to transport she could signal us.
CHAKOTAY: Are you getting enough meaningful information to justify her continuing this ordeal?
EMH: I am getting some remarkable data. Her entire biochemistry is undergoing a series of unique interactions. Look. This amino acid has been formed as a result of the breakdown of the toxin in her blood stream. It's affecting the normal flow of neurotransmitters and very likely having an hallucinogenic effect.
TUVOK: Is she delusional?
EMH: I think she's experiencing the Nechani version of a psychoactive drug.
CHAKOTAY: Then is it possible she's in no condition to activate the homing signal?
EMH: I don't believe that's the case, and I strongly suspect this biochemical change is going to give us the answers we need. The toxin in her bloodstream may very well be the key to getting a treatment for Kes.
TUVOK: Commander, the decision is ultimately yours, of course. However, I believe it would be the Captain's desire to complete the ritual.
CHAKOTAY: All right, we'll leave her there for now, but I'm not moving from this monitor until she gets back.

[Coastline]

(Waves rolling onto a rocky shore with a cliff behind Janeway.)
JANEWAY: What is this? An hallucination?
GUIDE: I'm only here to serve as a voice, an interpreter for the Ancestral Spirits.
JANEWAY: I see. If there are other beings here, could I see them myself?
GUIDE: You mean you want proof that we exist.
JANEWAY: That would be helpful.
GUIDE: It's irrelevant.
JANEWAY: I don't want to be disrespectful. I've gone through every part of the ritual that I've been asked to.
GUIDE: Everything you've gone through is meaningless. You've been told that.
JANEWAY: I know. I just want to bring this to completion, to make my request.
GUIDE: Then by all means do so.
JANEWAY: I cite the story of King Nevad as precedent. In the same way he pleaded for his son, I ask that Kes be restored to health.
GUIDE: Your request is inconsequential. You have what you need to save her yourself.

[Ritual room]

(The sarcophagus lid opens, and Janeway wakes.)
GUIDE: Welcome back.
JANEWAY: How long?
GUIDE: Does that matter?
JANEWAY: I'd like to know.
GUIDE: Thirty nine hours. You must take care of yourself. Your body's weak.
JANEWAY: I guess the physical conditioning programmes on the holodeck didn't quite prepare me for this.
GUIDE: Has it been worthwhile?
JANEWAY: I think so. I was told that I had what I needed to save Kes.
GUIDE: Then it must be true. The spirits would not deceive you.
(The guide hands over Janeway's uniform.)
GUIDE: Whenever you're ready.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Sickbay]

EMH: You could use a good night's sleep and a solid meal, but otherwise you're in good shape.
JANEWAY: When can you begin treating Kes?
EMH: Right away. The ritual may have been arduous for you, Captain, but it was certainly worthwhile. As I suspected, the toxin was the key. That's what produces the natural immunity the Nechani monks acquire before they enter the biogenic field.
CHAKOTAY: How does that translate into a cure for Kes?
EMH: I've created a physiometric programme to analyse the immune mechanism and develop a treatment regimen.
JANEWAY: Then let's get started.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if you'll excuse me, I'm probably more useful on the bridge right now.
(Chakotay leaves.)
EMH: I'll carry out the treatment in stages to reduce the physical stress from the metabolic changes.
(A monitor starts beeping.)
NEELIX: What's that? Is something wrong?
EMH: I don't believe so. Hmm, her electrolyte balance is deviating, but that's not entirely unexpected.
NEELIX: It isn't.
EMH: Hmm.
NEELIX: What does that mean? Hmm? What?
EMH: Mister Neelix, if you keep on pestering me with questions I won't be able to concentrate on what I'm doing.
(Beep beep!)
NEELIX: Something is wrong!
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor?
EMH: Her cardiac functions are being disrupted. I don't understand it. Lectrazine should counteract the disruptions. This is baffling. Her biochemical levels are exactly what they need to be to correct the damage. She should be awake and alert.
NEELIX: Why isn't she?
EMH: I can't explain it. Her vital signs are unstable. I have to discontinue treatment. I don't understand it.
NEELIX: Can't we try again?
EMH: It's too dangerous.
JANEWAY: Do you have any other options?
EMH: No. I'm sorry, Captain, but it appears that everything you went through was meaningless.

[Sanctuary]

JANEWAY: You meant what you said, didn't you? Everything I went through was meaningless.
GUIDE: Yes.
JANEWAY: I did everything you asked of me. You led me to believe that would allow me to help Kes.
GUIDE: I haven't led you anywhere, Kathryn. You've taken me along wherever you wanted to go. This was your ritual. You set these challenges for yourself.
JANEWAY: It's true that I came here with certain expectations. Are you saying that you simply fulfilled my expectations?
GUIDE: You'd have settled for nothing else.
JANEWAY: I'm not ready to give up. If there's still a way to save Kes I want to try.
GUIDE: You've come back to seek the spirits.
JANEWAY: I don't know what I'm seeking.
GUIDE: Then I believe you are ready to begin.

[Waiting room]

(Back into the brown robe.)
OLD MAN 1: Well, look who's come back. So, your little adventure didn't quite work out the way you'd planned it. You put yourself through a lot of trouble and for nothing, didn't you.
OLD MAN 2: Oh, don't feel bad. You wouldn't believe some of the things people have done to themselves on their way to seek the spirits.
JANEWAY: There is no real ritual after all.
OLD MAN 2: Real is such a relative term. Most of the challenges in life are the ones we create for ourselves.
OLD WOMAN: And you are particularly hard on yourself, aren't you.
JANEWAY: I've always been driven to succeed.
OLD MAN 1: Stubborn, I'd say. You didn't really consider sitting and waiting with us, did you?
JANEWAY: Well, I'm here now and I'm asking for your help. I want to understand the purpose of waiting in this room.
OLD WOMAN: But isn't it enough to sit and be sociable? We're good company.
JANEWAY: That's what I'm supposed to do. Talk to the Ancestral Spirits.
OLD WOMAN: First we were a test, and now we're the Ancestral Spirits.
JANEWAY: Are you?
OLD MAN 1: That would be nice and quantifiable for you, wouldn't it. If the spirits were something you could see and touch and scan with your little devices.
OLD MAN 2: If you can explain everything, what's left to believe in?
JANEWAY: I know it's an important part of your religion to trust the spirits without question, but I wasn't brought up that way. It's hard for me to accept.
OLD MAN 1: So much for your tolerant open-minded Starfleet ideals.
JANEWAY: There's a difference between respecting the spiritual beliefs of other cultures and embracing them myself.
OLD MAN 1: Fine. Don't embrace a thing. It's all the same to us. Go on back to your ship and play with your molecular microscanner.
OLD WOMAN: You've tried all that already, but it didn't work, did it. Kes didn't get better.
JANEWAY: No, she didn't.
OLD WOMAN: Why not?
JANEWAY: The Doctor couldn't explain it.
OLD WOMAN: So it's inexplicable. A miraculous non-recovery.
JANEWAY: We haven't found the reason yet.
OLD WOMAN: But of course you will. You'll find all the answers eventually, with enough time and study, and the right sort of tools. That's what you believe isn't it as a scientist?
OLD MAN 1: Be honest.
JANEWAY: Yes, that's what I've always believed.
OLD MAN 2: Even when her science fails right before her eyes she still has full confidence in it. Now there's a leap of faith.
OLD WOMAN: Unconditional trust. Now that's promising.
JANEWAY: All right. If you're saying that science won't help Kes, what will?
OLD MAN 1: You won't like it.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to do whatever's necessary.
OLD MAN 1: Kill her. She's as good as dead already, finish the job! Give her another jolt of that what do you call it, biogenic field.
OLD WOMAN: That would do it.
JANEWAY: It would do what, exactly.
OLD MAN 1: There you go again, always looking for a rational explanation. Well there isn't one. Your orbital scans and medical research have given you the facts, and they tell you the biogenic field is lethal.
OLD WOMAN: If you believe the facts.
OLD MAN 2: Let all of that go, Kathryn. Take Kes back into the shrine and trust the spirits to return her soul.
JANEWAY: The ritual I went through is meaningless, and Kes has done nothing to prepare herself. How could either of us be ready to go through the field?
OLD MAN 2: If you believe you're ready, then you are. There's no more to it than that.
OLD MAN 1: But if you go in with any doubt, with any hesitation, then you're both dead. So, what are you going to do, Captain?
JANEWAY: You know I won't stand by and watch Kes die if there's anything I can do to save her. I want to believe it's possible. I'm going to try.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've been worried about you.
JANEWAY [OC]: I'm all right. I want you to beam Kes down here to the sanctuary.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. I'll bring her down myself. Chakotay to sickbay. Doctor, prepare Kes for transport.
EMH [OC]: Understood.

[Sanctuary]

(Chakotay and Neelix beam down with Kes on a biobed.)
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says her life signs are deteriorating. He almost wouldn't let us take her out of sickbay.
NEELIX: Have you found a way to help her?
JANEWAY: Yes, I have. I'm taking her back into the biogenic field.
NEELIX: I hate to question you, Captain, but why?
JANEWAY: I believe it will save her life.
CHAKOTAY: You have some new information on the effects of the field?
JANEWAY: I can't explain it to you.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, you've been through a lot in the past few days.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing.
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure of that? There are eight hundred megajoules of biogenic energy running through that shrine. The thoron radiation levels are off the scale. That's what you'd be taking yourself and her into. Why don't you take some time to think about this and let us run a few more scans.
JANEWAY: No.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this isn't like you.
NEELIX: You know you'll always have my gratitude for everything you've done to save Kes, but I couldn't and I know she couldn't ask you to risk your own life like this. There are too many other people who need you.
CHAKOTAY: He's right. It's my responsibility to keep you safe, for the crew's sake if not for your own. I'd rather not have to relieve you of duty, but if your judgment's been impaired in any way.
GUIDE: He can't really do that, can he?
JANEWAY: Yes, he can.
GUIDE: I suppose it might be necessary if the Captain of a ship were really mentally impaired, but you're not crazy, Kathryn, you know that.
NEELIX: These are the same people who were willing to let Kes die just for disturbing their shrine. Can you take their word for it that you'll be safe in there?
GUIDE: I can't give you my word on that. Nobody knows what will happen to them in the shrine until they go in. I don't know the answers. But you do.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I don't understand this.
JANEWAY: Neither do I. That's the challenge.
(Janeway takes Kes in her arms and walks up the steps. She pauses at the top then steps forward into the energy field. It flares around them then vanishes, and Kes wakes.)
JANEWAY: Kes.

[Doctor's office]

(Janeway sits and listens to the EMH's technobabble explanation.)
EMH: The tricorder readings Commander Chakotay took at the shrine revealed traces of iridium ions, which we could have known about sooner if we'd been permitted to take those readings in the first place.
KES: And iridium ions are significant?
EMH: They caused a temporary dielectric effect in the outer epidermal layers which neutralised some of the biogenic energy. Not much, but enough to make the Captain's altered biochemistry an effective defence.
KES: Then how was I cured?
EMH: The metabolic treatment I administered protected you against the full impact of exposure to the field when the Captain took you through. That exposure functioned like a natural cortical stimulator and reactivated your synaptic pathways.
KES: That's fascinating, Doctor.
EMH: Captain? If there's something about my analysis you disagree with.
JANEWAY: It's a perfectly sound explanation, Doctor. Very scientific.
(Janeway leaves Sickbay.)


S3 E8
Future's End Part 1
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: November 6 1996

[Earth - High Sierras - 1967]
(A waxing crescent moon hangs in the sky. A long-haired student is tending his campfire whilst listening to his transistor radio.)
RADIO: Demonstration at U C Santa Cruz campus last night. Tear gas was used to disperse a crowd of three thousand angry students. The temperature right now in down town Barstow is seventy five degrees.
(He retunes to music, then it cuts out. A strong wind picks up, then he watches a bright light crash-land nearby.)
STARLING: Far out!

[Ready room]

(Doorbell.)
JANEWAY: Come in!
(Tuvok enters and catches the only ball Janeway has managed to hit with her racket.)
JANEWAY: Oh. Sorry, Tuvok. I was just practicing my serve.
TUVOK: Your serve?
JANEWAY: Tennis. After nineteen years I've decided to take it up again. I'm a little rusty. I played in a novice tournament on the holodeck. I lost my first match in straight sets.
TUVOK: Perhaps if you maintained eye contact with the ball at the apex of its trajectory, your serve would be more effective.
JANEWAY: You play tennis.
TUVOK: Simple physics, Captain.
JANEWAY: Not as simple as when I played on the High School tennis team. What can I do for you, Tuvok?
TUVOK: I've completed my monthly security evaluation. All systems and crew
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Red Alert! Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Some sort of spatial rift. It opened right in front of us.
JANEWAY: Analysis.
KIM: It's a distortion in the space-time continuum, but it's got a graviton matrix. It's being artificially generated.
CHAKOTAY: By whom?
KIM: Sensors can't get inside. The distortion field's fluctuating. Something's coming out.
TUVOK: It appears to be a small ship, approximately six metres in length.
JANEWAY: Magnify.
TUVOK: Sensors are reading one occupant, human. He is holding position at the perimeter of the rift.
KIM: There's a subspace signature emanating from the ship. Captain, it's Federation!
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: No response. They appear to be charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Shields up! Hail them again.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: Shields are down.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
PARIS: Helm control is offline.
KIM: He's firing some kind of sub-atomic disruptor.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Full phasers. No effect.
KIM: Voyager's molecular structure is coming apart!
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, divert all available power to the deflector. Send out a high energy polaron pulse. It might help to disrupt his weapon.
TUVOK: Emitting deflector pulse now.
KIM: It's working.
TUVOK: We are being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Starship Voyager, I'm Captain Braxton of the Federation Timeship Aeon. I've come from twenty-ninth century Earth, five hundred years into your future. Please disengage your deflector pulse.
JANEWAY: Why are you firing at us?
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Your vessel is responsible for a disaster in my century. A temporal explosion that will destroy all Earth's solar system. I've come back in time to prevent that occurrence. My mission is your destruction. You must not resist.
JANEWAY: I'm going to need some more information before I allow you to
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Debris from your secondary hull was found in the explosion.
JANEWAY: Captain, I simply
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: No time!
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: He's remodulating the sub-atomic disruptor. Our deflector is losing power, it won't hold much longer.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if he's telling the truth
JANEWAY: I won't sacrifice this crew based on a ten second conversation. I need proof.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like we're going to get it.
JANEWAY: Adjust our deflector to match the frequency of his weapon. Try to overload his emitter.
TUVOK: It seems to be working. His weapon is offline and his ship has been damaged. The rift is destabilising and he's being pulled back inside.
JANEWAY: Re-establish helm control.
PARIS: I'm trying, Captain, but we seem to be caught in some kind of graviton distortion. We're being pulled in too.
(The two ships fall into the rift. After some shaking and a white-out, in which everyone loses consciousness, they awake in normal space.)
JANEWAY: Status.
TUVOK: Primary systems are coming back online. The weapons array and power grid took heavy damage.
KIM: The temporal rift is closed.
CHAKOTAY: Where are we?
(The viewscreen shows a blue planet with white clouds.)
PARIS: Home.
CHAKOTAY: We just cut across half the galaxy!
JANEWAY: The rift must have originated here. Hail Starfleet Command.
TUVOK: No response on standard frequencies. Curious. I am picking up a multitude of narrow band EM signals.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
(A cacophony of radio stations and telephone conversations.)
JANEWAY: The question isn't where we are, it's when we are. Mister Kim.
KIM: According to astrometric readings the year is 1996.
CHAKOTAY: The late twentieth century.
PARIS: Captain, they had surveillance satellites during this time.
JANEWAY: Maintain a high orbit. And modulate the shields to scatter their radar. We don't want to alarm the natives.
CHAKOTAY: What about the time ship? Is it here too?
TUVOK: There is no sign of the vessel in orbit. Scanning the planet surface. I am picking up low frequency subspace readings emanating from the northern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: Subspace technology shouldn't exist for another hundred years or so.
JANEWAY: It could be our friend from the twenty ninth century. Localise it.
TUVOK: North American continent, Pacific coast. The city of Los Angeles.
JANEWAY: We've got to go down there. If it is Captain Braxton, he's the key to all this, and at the moment his ship is the only way we have of getting back to our own century. Chakotay, Tuvok, Paris, you're with me. Mister Kim, you have the bridge.
KIM: Yes, Ma'am!
JANEWAY: As I recall, Tom, you're something of an aficionado on twentieth century America.
PARIS: That's right.
JANEWAY: What will we need to pass as locals in this era?
PARIS: Simple. Nice clothes, fast car and lots of money.

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]

(A guy on a skateboard wearing a massive boombox around his neck knocks over a street vendor's wares. Other people are on motor scooters or stilts. The away team watch from the railing of the upper level.)
TUVOK: We could have worn our Starfleet uniforms. I doubt if anyone would have noticed.
(They walk down the ramp.)
JANEWAY: The subspace readings are coming from within a one hundred metre radius of our position, but I can't pinpoint the source.
CHAKOTAY: I find it hard to believe a ship from the twenty ninth century could have landed on this beach without being noticed.
JANEWAY: We have no idea what kind of technology they might have in the future. Maybe it's cloaked. Let's spread out. Tuvok, Paris, go check the shoreline. Chakotay and I will search the boardwalk.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Well, Kathryn, you got us home.
JANEWAY: Right place, wrong time. But it is good to be back, nevertheless.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should look up a few ancestors. As I recall, one of them was a schoolteacher in Arizona.
JANEWAY: I don't know what my relatives were doing this far back in history.
GIRL ON BLADES: Coming through. Sorry.
JANEWAY: For all I know, she could be my great, great, great, great grandmother.
CHAKOTAY: She does have your legs.
JANEWAY: Have you ever been to southern California, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: After the Hermosa quake in 2047 this entire region sank under two hundred metres of water. It became one of the world's largest coral reefs, home to thousands of different marine species.
(A punk couple walk past.)
CHAKOTAY: Some interesting species in this century.

[Beach]

TUVOK: Subspace readings are weaker here.
PARIS: Let's head up to the board walk. Ah, the sun feels great.
TUVOK: Thermal and ultraviolet radiation are at hazardous levels.
(Paris takes off his shirt.)
PARIS: Lighten up, Tuvok. This was a great time and place and you're getting to see it first hand. Come on, take off your shirt.
TUVOK: And risk dermal dysplasia? No, thank you.
PARIS: Oh, Vulcans. Deep down you're all a bunch of hypochondriacs.
(Elsewhere on the beach.)
JANEWAY: The readings are coming from over there. Ten metres. There.
(A down-and-out is scavenging in the bins outside the Hot Dog Stick.)
CHAKOTAY: So much for the timeship.
JANEWAY: There's no doubt about it. The subspace readings are coming from him.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

(A room decorated with B movie posters, moon landing photos and Sci-Fi figurines. The young lady has her feet up on her desk when her computer screen starts beeping.)
RAIN: No way.
(She triangulates the emission source. It is in orbit.)
RAIN: Way.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

(The long-haired student is now a short-haired suit. He puts a computer chip on the glass table.)
STARLING: It's crap. The component density is too low, the voltage variance is out of spec and I don't even like the colour.
JIM: But Mister Starling
STARLING: We've got less than six months before we introduce the HyperPro PC, and with a chip like this driving it we'll have to change the name to Edsel. I gave your company this contract because you're the best in the business, next to us of course. Go home, Jim. Lose some sleep over this. I want a full report middle of next week.
(The intercom beeps.)
STARLING: What am I doing, Dave?
DAVE [OC]: You're in a meeting, sir.
STARLING: And?
DAVE [OC]: And, I know I'm not supposed to interrupt, but there's a woman calling on line three from Griffith Observatory. A Rain Robinson. She say's it's urgent.
(Starling waves bye to Jim, who leaves.)
STARLING: Put her through. Henry Starling.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Hi, I don't know if you remember me. I'm one of the astronomers at the SETI lab you're funding. We met at the Griffith restoration party.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Yes, yes. What it is?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Okay. Well, it was my understanding you wanted to be notified immediately if I ever picked up a gamma emission that matched the frequency profile you gave me? Well, I did, so I am.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Are you certain?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Positive. I tracked the emission and guess what, the source is in orbit. It is right above us.

[Chronowerx -Starling's office]

STARLING: When did it show up?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: According to the raw data, about ninety minutes ago. I'm not picking up anything from the standard search parameters. Wow. That means no one else knows there's something up there. We've got to tell somebody about this. We've got to call NASA!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Rain, that's a little premature, don't you think? This could be a close encounter, but then again, it could be a flock of geese.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Geese don't park themselves twenty thousand kilometres above North America. Let's send a message up there, see if there's any response.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: No! No, we don't know what we've found. And until we do, I'm not going to risk embarrassing myself, or your Observatory. Track the emission, get more data and keep me informed. In the meantime, I'm going to put a bottle of champagne on ice. Do you think ET likes Chateau Coeur?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Well if he doesn't I've got a six-pack in the fridge.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Good work, Rain. Stay in touch.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Oh, what the hell. Anyone up there?
(She transmits the standard SETI greeting.)

[Bridge]

TORRES: That trip through the rift is still affecting our primary systems. Weapons are offline, we blew three EPS conduits, and our main transporter buffer just crashed.
KIM: We've got an away team down there.
TORRES: I know. We've still got emergency transporters but they're short range.
KIM: How close to the surface would we have to get to beam them up?
TORRES: Pretty close. I'd say less than ten kilometres.
KIM: If we do that somebody's going to see us.
(Tuvok's replacement gets a beep.)
KAPLAN: Sir, I'm picking up an EM signal from the planet surface. It's directed at our co-ordinates.
KIM: On screen.
SETI MESSAGE [on viewscreen]: Greetings from the people of Earth.
KAPLAN: Shall I respond, sir?
KIM: Absolutely not.

[Santa Monica]

(The away team follow the tramp as he puts up The End Is Coming signs on lampposts.)
JANEWAY: He appears to live on the street. That pushcart seems to contain all his belongings.
CHAKOTAY: From what we can tell he spends most of his time putting up literature about the end of the world.
(Janeway's comm. badge beeps. She takes it out of her pocket.)
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we've got a problem. We received a signal from the surface. It looks like a standard

[Santa Monica]

KIM [OC]: Greeting designed for extraterrestrials.
JANEWAY: We've been detected.
KIM [OC]: It looks that way. We tracked the signal to

[Bridge]

KIM: An observatory about twenty kilometres from your location.

[Santa Monica]

JANEWAY: Transport Paris and Tuvok to those co-ordinates.
KIM [OC]: I can't do that right now, not without going into a lower orbit. The main pattern

[Bridge]

KIM: Buffer is offline. B'Elanna says it could take a couple of days to repair.
JANEWAY [OC]: In that case

[Santa Monica]

JANEWAY: Transmit those coordinates to Mister Tuvok's tricorder. He and Tom will have to get there using more conventional means.
KIM [OC]: Aye Captain, Kim out.
PARIS: Nobody walks in Los Angeles and they don't have much of a public transportation system. We're going to need some wheels.
JANEWAY: Do what you have to do. Find out who sent that message and get more information. Have we been detected, how many people know about us? We cannot risk contaminating the timeline.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: See you later.

[Alleyway - Braxton's home]

(The shack has The End of the Future painted on the wall nearby.)
BRAXTON: Who the hell are you! This is my stuff!
JANEWAY: It's all right, we don't want your stuff. We just want to ask you a few questions.
BRAXTON: No, no, no, no, no more questions, no. No more surveys. Damn social workers coming around all the time. No, I don't need your advice, I don't need your. Voyager. I knew you'd show up. This is all your fault, this is all your doing!
(Janeway finds his comm. badge in his coat.)
JANEWAY: Captain Braxton?
BRAXTON: I told you to turn off your deflector pulse, but you wouldn't listen to me. Voyager. Fools!
JANEWAY: Captain, what's happened to you? The last time we saw you
BRAXTON: I was a younger man, confident in my mission. But you wouldn't listen to me. Bo, you were too concerned with yourselves!
CHAKOTAY: You were trying to destroy us.
BRAXTON: I was trying to save billions of lives. To stop a chain reaction that started with Voyager! It's too late now. All things are set in motion. The terrible explosion will occur. The end is coming! The future's end.
JANEWAY: Captain, how long have you been here in the twentieth century?
BRAXTON: Too long. Thirty years too long.
CHAKOTAY: And yet we just arrived. Why?
BRAXTON: Pure chance. When you knocked my navigational system off course there's no telling where we may have ended up. Who's been here? Who took my pencils? Oh, always something missing. Oh, always trying to steal things. Oh, greedy people. Post-industrial barbarians!
JANEWAY: Captain, we want to help you, but you've got to give us more information. You said that Voyager causes the explosion.
BRAXTON: Yes. No. Yes. That's the paradox, my dear. A leads to B leads to C leads to A. Juvenile minds. Oh, how can I make you understand, huh? A. There's an explosion in the twenty ninth century. Debris from Voyager's hull is found in evidence. I go back in time to destroy you. B. You try to stop me, disabling my weapon which causes me to crash-land back here in the twentieth century. C. Someone in this century steals my timeship and launches it. They go into the future and once there they make one critical mistake which causes a terrible explosion that takes us all the way back to A. There's an explosion in the twenty ninth century. The cycle of causality is complete.
JANEWAY: How do you know all this? What evidence do you have that it will be your timeship that causes the disaster?
(Braxton rummages for a piece of brown paper.)
BRAXTON: Ah, I've spent thirty years answering that very question. Ah, yes, when the explosion first happened, my sensors recorded a whole variety of chronometric data. The pulses were highly chaotic. At first I thought it was a warp core implosion, but then I found debris from Voyager and my theory seemed to be confirmed. It was you. But then someone here stole my timeship and it started to dawn on me. If someone were to fly my timeship into the future without recalibrating the temporal matrix then that could cause the kind of explosion that I witnessed in the twenty ninth century.
JANEWAY: So it really wasn't Voyager after all.
BRAXTON: No. No, no, I reconstructed all the chronometric data as best I could remember it and it proved I was right. My ship causes the catastrophe.
CHAKOTAY: Which raises the question, who has your timeship?
BRAXTON: Starling. Henry Starling, CEO Chronowerx Industries. Philanthropist, entrepreneur, outstanding citizen. Pa! Before I crashed in 1967 I made an emergency beam out, but he found my ship before I did in some remote mountain range. I've been following this corrupt little man ever since, tracking his movements. He's become too powerful. I can't get close to him. Of course, you can't accomplish anything in this wretched century. Nobody here listens. Do you know that once they put me in a mental institution and filled me with primitive pharmaceuticals.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can help you find Starling and your ship, and get us back to where we belong.
BRAXTON: Oh, I wouldn't do that if I were you.
JANEWAY: Why not?
BRAXTON: Haven't you been listening? A leads to B
JANEWAY: Leads to C. Yes, we heard you. Why shouldn't we try to stop Starling?
BRAXTON: Because somehow you're involved in the disaster. That's why I found debris from Voyager's hull at the explosion. You will be destroyed as well.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we know what's going to happen, maybe we can figure out
(A police car stops and sounds its siren.)
POLICEMAN: Hey, Captain, how you doing? Understand you've been putting these signs up around the city again.
BRAXTON: No. No, no, no. Not me. I would never do that.
POLICEMAN: Why don't you walk over here and we can talk about it.
BRAXTON: Stay right where you are, quasi-Cardassian totalitarian.
POLICEMAN: No need to get upset about this, we just want to talk to you about the signs. Now, there've been a few people complaining.
BRAXTON: Captain, tell them I'm not crazy. Tell them I'm from the future. They came from the future too, you know.
POLICEMAN: Okay.
BRAXTON: They came in on a starship.
POLICEMAN: All right.
(Janeway shrugs.)
BRAXTON: Traitors!
(Braxton runs off and the police chase him.)
JANEWAY: We'll have to worry about him later. Right now, we've got to find Starling.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

(Starling is making a phone call.)
STARLING: We're not quite at the little green men stage yet, but believe me, you'll be the first to know. What I think we have here is an overenthusiastic young lady. I'm afraid she's exaggerating. We don't have anything, not yet. Thank you, Professor.
(The call ends.)
STARLING: You know what that little brat did? She emailed a friend of hers at JPL, who called his professor at CalTech. She's a security risk. Go to Griffith, get the data, get rid of her.
DUNBAR: Yes, sir.
STARLING: Dunbar! If it's true, if they're here, it's only a matter of time before they find me. There's no telling what capabilities they'll have. You may have to use the weapon.
DUNBAR: I understand.

[Outside Griffith Observatory]

(Tuvok and Paris arrive in a big pickup.)
TUVOK: Perhaps we should find a more suitable parking place. This is, after all, a stolen vehicle.
PARIS: Nobody's around, Tuvok. We're fine.
TUVOK: A taxi cab would have been less worrisome and more ethical.
PARIS: We haven't stolen anything. We borrowed a car. And we'll return it to the dealership as soon as we're done.
TUVOK: I was referring to the ethics of time travel.
PARIS: Somehow I doubt that taking a test drive is going to alter the course of the universe.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

PARIS: Over here. These are radio wave readouts. It looks like radio telescope transmissions. Pretty basic.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, you are being careless.
PARIS: Tuvok!
TUVOK: I will not lighten up on the matter. Thus far I have tolerated your impulsive methods. At times they have worked to our advantage. But discretion is also a virtue. We must leave things exactly as they were.
(Paris uses his tricorder on Rain's computer.)
PARIS: They've found us all right. The orbital schematic matches Voyager's position.
TUVOK: According to this data, they are tracking the warp emissions from our engines.
PARIS: Nobody in this century even knows what warp emission are.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, it appears they have configured their telescope to scan for them.
RAIN: Excuse me. Do not enter, employees only. The sign on the door.
(Rain is carrying a pizza box.)
PARIS: I'm sorry, I think we're a little lost. We were on the museum tour and we took a wrong turn at the Saturn exhibit.
TUVOK: Perhaps you could tell us how to get back to the lobby.
RAIN: Go right down the hall, take a left at Mars, right at Halley's Comet and then just keep going straight ahead past the soda machine.
PARIS: This lab is er, pretty groovy.
RAIN: Groovy.
PARIS: What do you do here?
RAIN: We watch the skies.
PARIS: For what?
RAIN: Signs of extraterrestrial life. Nice meeting you.
PARIS: My name is Tom Paris, by the way.
RAIN: Rain Robinson.
PARIS: Your curves don't look so great.
RAIN: Excuse me?
PARIS: This is a Fourier spectral analysis?
RAIN: That's exactly what it is.
PARIS: You know, you might get better resolution if you adjust your amplitude parameters.
RAIN: You're probably right
PARIS: Or you might try using a theta band filter.
RAIN: You know a lot for someone who can't find his way past Saturn.
PARIS: I majored in astrophysics.
RAIN: Where?
PARIS: Starfleet Academy.
RAIN: Never heard of it.
PARIS: East coast school.
(He goes to one of her movie posters.)
PARIS: Orgy of the Walking Dead? That's a classic! Did you see the sequel, Bride of the Corpse?
RAIN: Let me guess. You minored in B movies.
PARIS: Something like that.
TUVOK: Pardon me, Tom. We should be going. Our friends are waiting for us.
PARIS: Yeah, right. Got to go.
RAIN: Hey, I do the planetarium show Tuesday nights, so er, you guys should come by, check it out, bring your friends. The best stars in Hollywood are right above us.
PARIS: Yeah, great, but I think we're busy on Tuesday. Thanks anyway.
(They leave.)
RAIN: No problem.
(Rain returns to her computer and sees it crash.)
RAIN: Whoa!
(Up comes a skull and crossbones - Fatal System Error. Error #0047)

[Outside Griffith Observatory]

TUVOK: I downloaded all of her data into the tricorder and disrupted her data storage device.
PARIS: Good. I hope she doesn't get in any trouble.
TUVOK: It will simply look like a computer malfunction.
PARIS: It's a shame, though. She was about to make the biggest discovery in human history. It could have changed her career.
TUVOK: And ended ours. I am curious, Lieutenant, what does it mean, groovy?
RAIN: Hey! Hey you, guys!
PARIS: Red alert!
RAIN: Hey! Hey! Just wait a minute! What the hell did you do to my computer? It is screwed up! The hard drive is wiped!
PARIS: Look, I don't have time to explain.
RAIN: Who are you people, and what is that thing in your pants?
TUVOK: I beg your pardon?
RAIN: That little gadget you put in your pocket, what is it, a Demagnetizer?
(Paris sees Dunbar point a phaser at them.)
PARIS: Get down!
(The borrowed pickup is atomised. Tuvok returns fire.)
RAIN: What the hell?
PARIS: Do you have a car?
RAIN: Yeah, over there.
TUVOK: We'll need to use it.
(Dunbar fires again, and Tuvok shoots the future phaser out of his hand, then retrieves the scarf that has come off, revealing his ears. They drive off in Rain's VW camper.)

Operations Officer's log, supplemental. We've been on full sensor alert looking for signs that anyone else has detected Voyager. As a precaution, I've also asked Neelix and Kes to monitor all media broadcasts.

[Mess hall]

(A wall screen has six displays constantly changing.)
KES: We've set up a computer algorithm to search for key words and phrases. Anything that might indicate Voyager.
KIM: Anything so far?
NEELIX: Not yet, although we have come across some very intriguing televised broadcasts. Take a look at this. It's a form of entertainment called a soap opera. The exploration of human relationships is fascinating.
KIM: I can't imagine just watching the story and not being a part of it.
KES: That's because you've been spoiled by the holodeck. There's something to be said for non-interactive stories like this, being swept away in the narrative.
NEELIX: Oh, I can't wait to see if Blaine's twin brother is the father of Jessica's baby.
KIM: Good work. Keep me informed, and don't get too swept away.
NEELIX: Er, aye, sir.
SHARON [on monitor]: Nobody'll know the difference.
JACK [on monitor]: I'll know, Sharon. He's my brother. How can I face him knowing that our son is his son?
SHARON [on monitor]: All you need to know, Jack, is that I love you!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

(Night. A light is flashing red on the wall as Chakotay and Janeway break in with help from the tricorder. Chakotay turns it off.)
CHAKOTAY: So far, so good. We haven't set off any alarms.
JANEWAY: Our Mister Starling has built himself quite a corporate empire. Looks like he's got wealth, celebrity and an ego to match.
(She sits at Starling's computer. It asks for a password. She taps at the keyboard with one finger.)
CHAKOTAY: I see you never learned to type.
JANEWAY: Turn of the millennium technology wasn't a required course at the Academy. This is like stone knives and bearskins.
CHAKOTAY: Well, this isn't. I'm detecting a forcefield. I can't scan beyond this wall. I don't see an access port or a control panel.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can find something in his computer. Oh, he's got a massive database here, but it's protected by an encryption sequence. I'm going to try interfacing my tricorder.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a series of pictographs. They must have used symbols to represent the different functions of the computer.
JANEWAY: Let's see what Henry's been up to all these years.

[Rain's Camper van]

(Paris is driving.)
TUVOK: The transtators were disrupted by that energy weapon. Our communicators are useless.
PARIS: That means we can't call the, our friends. What do we do now?
RAIN: You're going to take a right at the next light and a left at the taco stand, because you're taking me home! And you're not keeping the van!
TUVOK: I am afraid that is not possible, Miss Robinson. Your life may be in danger.
RAIN: I'm going to pop this hatch and I'm going to start screaming until you tell me what's going on. Who are you? What is that thing in orbit? Why did that guy try to kill us?
PARIS: I told you, we're secret agents.
RAIN: I'm opening the hatch.
PARIS: Look, we saved your life. Isn't it obvious we're on your side?
RAIN: I'm standing up. I'm taking a deep breath!
PARIS: Rain, you're not going to scream! I know you're frightened and you've seen some pretty strange things, but you have to trust me! We're not going to hurt you and I will explain everything. It's either that or take your chances with the guy who tried to vaporise you.
RAIN: The UFO, what is it?
PARIS: It's a Soviet spy satellite. Part of a massive KGB operation. We're trying to stop it.
RAIN: Soviet? The USSR broke up five years ago. The KGB doesn't even exist anymore.
PARIS: That's what they'd like you to think.
TUVOK: Perhaps we've told her enough for now.
RAIN: What about you, Agent Tuvok? What's up with those ears? Thought I didn't notice? I did. What about your weapons? What are they, lasers?
TUVOK: I'm sorry, that information is classified. And as for my ears, they are a family trait.
PARIS: He's very sensitive about them.
RAIN: Whatever.
TUVOK: We must find a way to contact our friends.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

JANEWAY: Incredible. Starling's computer designs were inspired by technology from the timeship. He introduced the very first isograted circuit in 1969, two years after Braxton's ship crash-landed.
CHAKOTAY: Any every few years there's been an equally revolutionary advance in computers, all from Chronowerx Industries, all based on Starling's crude understanding of twenty ninth century technology.
JANEWAY: Are you thinking what I'm thinking, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I wish I weren't.
JANEWAY: The computer age of the late twentieth century
CHAKOTAY: Shouldn't have happened.
JANEWAY: But it did, and it's part a of our history. All because of that timeship. Look at this. Gantry, power conduits, telemetry consoles. This looks like a design for a launching bay.
CHAKOTAY: Braxton was right. The ship's going to be launched.
JANEWAY: We've got to send these schematics to Voyager for analysis. Janeway to Voyager.
KIM [OC] Kim here, Captain.
JANEWAY: We're in Starling's office. I want you to establish a comm. link with my tricorder and try to upload his computer database.
KIM [OC]: Aye, Captain. We'll need a few minutes to reconfigure to their binary system.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Let's see if we can find out where the location of that launch pad is.
CHAKOTAY: You're really getting the hang of this.
JANEWAY: I'm a quick study.
CHAKOTAY: You know, Captain, in a way Braxton was right. If we hadn't fought him when he tried to destroy Voyager, he wouldn't have been pulled back in time, his ship wouldn't have crash-landed on Earth, and none of this would have happened.
JANEWAY: Time travel. Ever since my first day in the job as a Starfleet Captain I swore I'm never let myself get caught in one of these godforsaken paradoxes. The future is the past, the past is the future. It all gives me a headache.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. This looks promising. Try timeship security portal.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's linked to some kind of surveillance system. An image of the launch bay would give us a clue to it's location.
(It turns the world map on the wall into a window. They look down at the Aeon in the launch bay, then the lights are turned on.)
STARLING: I see you've made yourself at home. Welcome to the twentieth century. I know who you are. You're from the future. I knew you'd come back one day. I detected your vessel in orbit and Mister Dunbar here had a run-in with your friends. You're here to take the timeship.
JANEWAY: Mister Starling, you're about to cause a terrible disaster that will affect the twenty ninth century. An explosion that will cost billions of lives. We're here to stop you from doing that.
STARLING: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: If you launch that ship and travel to the future, it will destroy Earth's solar system.
STARLING: How do you know this?
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say we talked to the ship's previous owner. He told us that if it's temporal matrix isn't precisely calibrated, you'll trigger a temporal explosion. That ship shouldn't be here. It belongs to another century. We have to take it back.
(Beep.)
STARLING: What's that?
JANEWAY: It's a communication device. Someone's trying to contact me.
STARLING: Answer it.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we've established the comm. link. We're ready to upload on your signal.
JANEWAY [OC]: Do it.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

STARLING: My database! Stop or I'll kill your Captain.

[Bridge]

KIM: Who is this?

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

STARLING: You've got five seconds.

[Bridge]

KIM: Break the link.
TORRES: Done.
KIM: What's our transporter status?
TORRES: The main pattern buffers are still offline. We can try an emergency transport from a lower orbit.
KIM: That's exactly what the Captain ordered us not to do. We'd be risking detection.
TORRES: Harry, we can't worry about that now. Their lives are in danger.
KIM: And if somebody sees a starship flying through the clouds?
TORRES: The Captain put you in charge. It is your decision.
KIM: Helm, get a fix on Chakotay and the Captain.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
KIM: B'Elanna, stand by emergency transporters. Get ready to beam them directly to the bridge. Take us down.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: You've taken over three thousand gigabits of information, including my launch plan. But that's not going to be a problem, Captain. I'll make a few changes to my travel itinerary. You're not going to stop me.
JANEWAY: If you don't give us that ship, we'll take it by force.
STARLING: In case you haven't noticed, I'm holding the gun.
JANEWAY: Not for long. I've got a starship in orbit that can vaporise this entire building in the blink of an eye.
STARLING: And you along with it.
JANEWAY: If necessary.
STARLING: Captain, you've got some cojones.
(Janeway is beamed away. Chakotay throws a chair at Dunbar.)
STARLING: Kill them!
(Chakotay is beamed away.)
STARLING: Damn!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Helm, maintain present altitude. Keep us within transporter range. Chakotay, see if you can disable the forcefield around that timeship. B'Elanna, prepare to lock onto the timeship and beam it to cargo bay two. Ensign Kim, you have an impeccable sense of timing. Not bad for your first day in the big chair.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: The forcefield's down.
DUNBAR: Sir, the timeship!
STARLING: They're trying to teleport the ship!

[Bridge]

TORRES: The matter stream is modulating. He's disrupting transport.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Yes!

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, I don't understand how, but he's using our transporter beam as a downlink. He's accessing our main computer.
TORRES: Every time I try to disable his downlink he comes up with a new command override.
JANEWAY: Starling is using twenty ninth century technology against us. We may not be able to keep up with him.
CHAKOTAY: Inertial dampers are offline. He's gotten into our propulsion systems.
JANEWAY: Disengage transporters.
TORRES: Destabilising matter stream. Transporters offline.
KIM: We've terminated the downlink, Captain, but he got at least twenty percent of our main computer files.
JANEWAY: Get us back into orbit and I want a full damage report.
STARLING [OC]: Captain Janeway, Henry Starling here.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

STARLING: USS Voyager, Intrepid class. Much bigger than I expected, and much less advanced. Says here your ship was launched in the year 2371? You're from the twenty fourth century? And here all this time I though you were from the twenty ninth. Looks like I have the home field advantage. Ooo, what's this?

[Bridge]

STARLING [OC]: Oh, now this is interesting.
CHAKOTAY: Damage reports are coming in. Some minor power fluctuations in the impulse drive and a few burned out circuits in the main computer core. Nothing we can't handle.
KES [OC]: Sickbay to bridge. Captain, I can't find the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Is his programme offline?
KES [OC]: No. His programme is gone.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

EMH: Where am I?
DUNBAR: Who are you?
STARLING: Welcome.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Captain, this is Neelix. There's something on the television I think you should see.

[Bridge]

NEELIX [OC]: It's a current events programme.
KIM: I asked Neelix to monitor Earth broadcasts. I'm transferring it to the main viewer.
(Amateur footage of something crossing the night sky very quickly.)
ANNOUNCER [OC]: Incredible footage was caught just an hour ago by a man using his camcorder to tape a backyard barbeque. The massive unidentifiable object doesn't appear to be a meteorite, weather balloon or satellite, and one aviation expert we've spoken to has stated that it's definitely not any kind of US aircraft currently in use. We're waiting investigation by local authorities and we'll keep you updated as news develops on this incredible story.

To be continued...


S3 E9
Future's End Part 2
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: November 13 1996

[Kerbside - Metro Plaza]

(Paris is working on the camper van radio at a small table.)
RAIN: Let me guess. Someone broke into the van last night while I was sleeping, tried to snatch the stereo, you bravely fought them off and now you're repairing the damage.
PARIS: That's exactly what happened.
RAIN: My hero. What's it like? Life as a spy, I mean.
PARIS: Classified.
RAIN: Oh, right. I forgot. But you said secret agent and nobody says secret agent. And you do that a lot. You get things not quite right, like you don't belong here.
PARIS: Rain, you're fantasising.
RAIN: And you're insulting my intelligence. Yesterday afternoon I picked up a UFO in orbit. Today my life is completely out of control, so don't think I'm too stupid to notice.
PARIS: I apologise.
RAIN: Accepted.
PARIS: Would you also accept that there are lives at stake here? The more you keep asking me questions, the more difficult you make things. For everybody.
RAIN: I'll try.
PARIS: So, why'd you become an astronomer?
RAIN: My brother had a telescope, a little refractor. You could barely see in the tree house next door actually, but it was enough. It was enough to see the rings of Saturn. I remember. I remember I used to think that they looked like jewels from a pirate's treasure. All I ever wanted since then was to reach up and touch them.
TUVOK: Good morning.
(Tuvok returns bearing drinks and bags of fast food.)
RAIN: Agent Tuvok, what's up?
TUVOK: Breakfast is up. Have you made any progress?
PARIS: I think so.
RAIN: Chili burritos, foot long hot dogs and Goliath Gulps. This is not a breakfast, this is an afternoon at Dodger Stadium.
TUVOK: And that is a non-sequitur. Would you please hand me a burrito.
RAIN: Everything you guys do is just a little bit off.
(Smoke rises from the stereo.)
PARIS: These things are kind of crude. So much for sending a locator signal.
TUVOK: There is another option.
PARIS: The radio dish at the Observatory. We could use the same set up
RAIN: The same set up as I used to send that message to your whatever it is up in orbit.
TUVOK: We will require your assistance.
RAIN: No kidding.
PARIS: Well?
RAIN: Not on an empty stomach.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: Starling downloaded nearly twenty percent of our computer core while we were trying to beam the timeship out of his building.
TORRES: I'm replacing those programmes as quickly as I can, but some of it isn't retrievable.
KES: Like the Doctor. There's literally nothing left of him. He's just gone.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately the Doctor is only one of our problems. Our weapons are offline, Tuvok and Paris are still missing somewhere in Los Angeles, and we've confirmed Captain Braxton's hypothesis. If Starling does attempt a flight to the future, it will most likely end in disaster.
KIM: Captain. I've analysed Braxton's schematic. The temporal technology is incredibly complex.
TORRES: No matter how much a genius this Starling might be, he is not a trained pilot from the twenty ninth century.
CHAKOTAY: Without the exact calibration, that ship will rip the time-space continuum apart.
KIM: The instant he jumps to the twenty ninth century, there won't be a twenty ninth century. Not for Earth anyway. The entire solar system will be destroyed.
JANEWAY: I want that timeship.
TORRES: Long range transporters are still down. We'd have to drop out of orbit again.
NEELIX: Captain, I strongly recommend against that. The more legitimate news organisations have apparently decided that the Voyager image is fraudulent. However I've also been monitoring more official channels and the United States military is taking things just a little more seriously.
CHAKOTAY: If we risk another pass through the lower atmosphere, there's a chance of getting intercepted by the Air Force.
JANEWAY: If we can't get to the ship, maybe we can get to the man. Torres, I want
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Captain Janeway. I'm receiving a transmission from Lieutenant Tuvok, audio only.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, report.
TUVOK [OC]: Lieutenant Paris and I are at the Griffith Observatory

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

(Tuvok is using Rain's cell phone.)
TUVOK: In the Hollywood Hills. We have modified the satellite dish transmitter to carry and receive Voyager communication frequencies. I regret the bad connection.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: That's quite all right, Mister Tuvok. What's happened?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

TUVOK: We have become associated with a young woman employed at the astronomical laboratory. It was she who sent the message to Voyager, but her lab is under the supervision of an individual

[Briefing room]

TUVOK [OC]: Named Henry Starling.
JANEWAY: Oh, we've met Mister Starling. He has the timeship and he's the one who will cause the disaster in the twenty ninth century.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's Laboratory]

TUVOK: Then it would seem we must find a way to stop him.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Tell me about this young woman. Can we trust her?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

TUVOK: She and Lieutenant Paris appear to be bonding on a cross-cultural level. I would have to say yes.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Ask if she'd be willing to help us.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

(Starling enters, goes to his computer and activates the EMH.)
STARLING: How's it going?
EMH: I find your interest in my well-being to be less than genuine.
STARLING: Try to be a little more grateful, Doc. The schematics I downloaded from your ship indicate you were stuck in the sickbay twenty four hours a day.
EMH: I recently suffered a severe programme loss and I'm still in the process of retrieving my memory files, but apparently on a few occasions I have been projected into other locations. Undoubtedly you're using a similar procedure.
STARLING: My holographic simulator. We use it to test our new microchip designs. I projected you through the emitters in the office. Your programme really isn't very sophisticated.
EMH: That is a matter of opinion. Now would you please return me to my vessel.
STARLING: Can't do that. Not yet. I've a few questions I want answered.
EMH: If you have need of medical expertise, I would refer you to a more local physician.
STARLING: All Captain Janeway's talk of a disaster I caused is just smoke. You came here to steal my timeship.
EMH: That is simply not the case.
STARLING: That timeship is from the twenty ninth century. Technology five hundred years more advanced than anything you've got. You'd love to get your hands on it. You figured I'd be any easy target. Some backwards twentieth century Neanderthal that doesn't know what he's got. But you found out otherwise, didn't you?
EMH: A paranoid response indicative of bipolar personality disorder. If my history is accurate, southern California in the late twentieth century had no shortage of psychotherapists, competent and otherwise. I suggest you find one. Now, return me to Voyager.
STARLING: I've learned your weapons are damaged, your ship's teleporter's half shot, but I didn't get all the personnel files. I have to know my enemy. Give me Captain Janeway's psychological profile.
EMH: I'm a doctor, not a database.
STARLING: I'd say you're a little bit of both. Start talking.
EMH: Or suffer the consequences? Hardly. I'm a hologram. I experience neither pain nor fear of death. You have no means of coercing me.
(Starling taps a key and proves him wrong.)
STARLING: Pain. It's an interesting sensation, isn't it.
EMH: I, I never realised.
STARLING: How unpleasant it could be? This is what burning feels like. For a human to experience what you're going through right now, he'd have to be on fire.
(Starling turns it off, and the EMH falls to the carpet.)
EMH: How?
STARLING: By reconfiguring your tactile response sensors. Easy as proverbial pie. Feeling more co-operative?
(The intercom buzzes. Starling picks up the phone.)
STARLING: I'm in a meeting, Dave. Put her through.

[Metro Plaza]

RAIN: Mister Starling. Oh my god, I'm so scared. They're going to find me. I don't know what to do.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Take it easy, Rain. Everything's okay.

[Metro Plaza]

RAIN: Everything's not okay. People are shooting at me! They're going to find me. I don't know what to do.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Yes, you do. You're going to jump in a cab and come to my office. You'll be safe here.

[Metro Plaza]

RAIN: No, they'll find me.
STARLING [OC]: Where are you?
RAIN: Metro Plaza, by the fountain. Please come get me. Please.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: I'll send somebody.

[Metro Plaza]

RAIN: No! You. I'm really scared.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: I'll be right there.

[Metro Plaza]

RAIN: He bought it, sort of.
PARIS: What do you mean?
RAIN: I don't know. His voice sounded a little suspicious.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Pack a lunch, Doc. We're going for a walk.
EMH: In case you have forgotten, I can only appear in a room equipped with a holographic projection system. In short, I am going nowhere.
(Dunbar drives Sterling to Metro Plaza, and opens the back door for his boss. The EMH gets out of the other side and gazes around in awe. He has a device on left arm. Starling has something futuristic in his hand. Paris and Tuvok see them.)

[Shuttlecraft]

TORRES: Interferometric dispersion is online. That should take care of any radar detection. And I've configured the shields to disguise our visual profile. Unless somebody gets right on top of us, we should look like a small twentieth century aircraft.
CHAKOTAY: Transporters are online. We should be within range in about ten minutes. You can see the entire Baja Peninsula. I'd forgotten how beautiful the view is from this altitude. I never thought I'd see it again.
TORRES: You trained as a pilot in North America, didn't you?
CHAKOTAY: That's right. My first year at the Academy. Then I went to Venus for a couple of months to learn how to handle atmospheric storms, and then I dodged asteroids for a semester in the belt.
TORRES: Sounds like you had a lot more fun at the Academy than I did. I remember dodging a few punches in the lab.
CHAKOTAY: Only you, B'Elanna, could start a brawl in Astrotheory 101.
TORRES: I guess I was just a little more enthusiastic in those days.
CHAKOTAY: I guess so.
TORRES: Chakotay, what if we're stuck here? What if we can't find a way back?
CHAKOTAY: There are still a few isolated places left in this century. We'd have to keep low profiles.
TORRES: We'd have to get jobs.
CHAKOTAY: I've thought about pursuing archaeology full time. Maybe I could teach at a university or work on one of the important digs in Central America. There were still a lot of important discoveries to be made in this century. I could win a Nobel prize.
TORRES: So much for a low profile.
CHAKOTAY: What about you?
TORRES: Highly qualified Klingon seeks position as engineer.
CHAKOTAY: I'd hire you in a second. Let's start our descent.
TORRES: Approach course laid in. Full power to thrusters.
CHAKOTAY: Watch out for birds.

[Metro Plaza]

PARIS: Paris to Chakotay.

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
PARIS [OC]: Starling's arrived, with the Doctor.
TORRES: What? How is that possible?
PARIS [OC]: I don't know. Are you within range?
CHAKOTAY: Almost. Another two minutes.

[Metro Plaza]

STARLING: I don't know, Doc. You were awfully quiet on the ride over here.
EMH: I'm not programmed to make small talk.
STARLING: Maybe just a little bit anxious about being out in the real world.
EMH: It's just another environment to me.
STARLING: Mind your manners, Doc. If your shipmates start any trouble, you'll be holodust.
TUVOK: I have triangulated the position of the van, Chakotay. Stand by for tricorder uplink. You'll be able to lock on the moment Starling is inside.
(Rain goes over to Starling.)
RAIN: Mister Starling, I'm so glad you're here.
STARLING: Tell your new friends to come out or their colleague here's going to die.
RAIN: What are you talking about?
STARLING: Let's go.
RAIN: Oh, my van is this way.
STARLING: We're taking my car.
RAIN: I left my stuff in the van.
STARLING: I'll send somebody back for it. Is there a problem?
RAIN: No.
PARIS: He's heading in the wrong direction. They're not going to the van.
TUVOK: Mister Chakotay, there is a problem.
(Starling, Rain and the EMH walk to the car. Then Rain sees Dunbar, and stops.)
RAIN: That, that's the guy that tried to kill me.
STARLING: No, he was trying to rescue you.
RAIN: Where are we going?
STARLING: To my office. You'll be safe there.
RAIN: Office. Right.
(They get in the car, the EMH in the front passenger seat this time.)
PARIS: We're recalibrating Starling's position. You're going to have to take him out of his own car.
TUVOK: There may not be enough time. I've determined the coordinates.
PARIS: Now, Chakotay!

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY: We've got a lock on Starling's position.
TORRES: Energising.

[Starling's car]

STARLING: Dunbar, take the surface streets. The 101's a nightmare at this time (begins to dematerialise)
RAIN: Oh my God!
(The EMH struggles with Dunbar.)
EMH: Run!
(Rain gets out and runs to Tuvok and Paris.)

[Shuttlecraft]

TORRES: The pattern buffer's overloading. He's activated some kind of device. It's interfering with the transport.
(Starling is finally beamed away, and the EMH punches Dunbar's lights out. He gets out and runs, too. Dunbar drives away.)

[Metro Plaza]

PARIS: Are you all right?
RAIN: I guess so.
TUVOK: Doctor.
EMH: I've been equipped with an autonomous self-sustaining mobile holo-emitter. In short, I am footloose and fancy free.

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've got Starling in our transporter buffers but we can't rematerialise him.
TORRES: The interference is disrupting computer pathways.
CHAKOTAY: Aft thrusters are down.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we're close enough to the shuttle to use the short range transporter.
JANEWAY: Janeway to transporter room one. Lock directly onto the shuttle's pattern buffers and energise.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, we're taking over from here. Mister Kim, let's go.

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY: The buffers are purged. They've taken Starling off our hands.
TORRES: We're losing altitude.

[Transporter room one]

JANEWAY: He's got what looks like a tricorder. It's putting out some kind of interference signal.
KIM: I'm isolating it, and suppressing the amplitude. Got him.
STARLING: Ah. Damn it. (collapses)
JANEWAY: Janeway to sickbay. Medical emergency in Transporter room one.
KES [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY: Propulsion is offline. Voyager, we're going down!

[Cellar]

(General tools on shelves, with cobwebs over them. Torres and Chakotay are lying on the floor, bound hand and foot. Torres wakes, then two men open the door and walk to the top of the stairs. The leader is carrying a honking big gun.)
TORRES: Where are we?
PORTER: This one looks like an Indian, and that one, I don't know what her story is.
BUTCH: What's that thing on her head?
(Butch, the one without a gun, goes to touch Torres' forehead, and she snarls at him. He recoils.)
PORTER: Careful, Butch, she looks like a fighter.
CHAKOTAY: Who are you?
PORTER: You first. Are you spying on us, Chief?
CHAKOTAY: No, just passing by.
BUTCH: In your new stealth plane? Who sent you?
TORRES: Nobody sent us. We had engine trouble.
BUTCH: I don't believe her. They're wearing military uniform, flying a secret plane. They're coming for us.
PORTER: USS equals Federal Government. The Federal Government is the Beast.
CHAKOTAY: We are not from the Beast. Just take us to our plane.
BUTCH: Shut up!
(Butch kicks Chakotay, and Torres kicks Butch's legs out from under him. Porter readies his gun.)
PORTER: That'll be all. Call for reinforcements.
(Butch leaves. Porter settles himself in a chair.)
PORTER: It's going to be a long day.

[Rain's Camper van]

(Rain is driving.)
RAIN: I've gone out with guys who've disappeared into thin air on the first date.
EMH: I assume she is speaking figuratively.
RAIN: But I have never actually seen it happen. And you, Mister Leisure Suit.
EMH: There's a name I hadn't considered.
RAIN: That guy punched you a bunch of times. You should have a black eye or a swollen lip, a broken nose.
EMH: Try to relax. You appear to be hallucinating.
RAIN: Oh, is that what I am? I'm hallucinating. Oh.
PARIS: Rain, I'm sorry you got dragged into all this.
(The cellphone rings.)
TUVOK: Tuvok here.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Tuvok, we've got Starling, but we've lost contact with Chakotay and Torres. Their shuttle went down over Arizona. Mister Kim is transmitting the co-ordinates to your tricorder. I want

[Rain's Camper van]

JANEWAY [OC]: You to find them.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Tuvok out. Mister Starling is under control. I suggest you return to Chronowerx and continue the business there. The Doctor and I must make our way to Arizona.

[Sickbay]

KES: He suffered minor synaptic stress during the extended transport. Enough to cause unconsciousness but not any permanent damage.
JANEWAY: Can you bring him out of it?
KES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Welcome to the twenty fourth century. I took the precaution of removing your tricorder. That's what it's called, by the way.
STARLING: It didn't work. Should have blocked your ship's teleporter.
JANEWAY: It works perfectly. You just don't know how to use it.
STARLING: Give me some credit, Captain. I did pretty well for a primitive.
JANEWAY: That's all over now. I've won, so disable the forcefield around Chronowerx. I want that timeship.
STARLING: You're in no position to be making any demands, Captain.
JANEWAY: On the contrary.
STARLING: What're you going to do, shoot me?
JANEWAY: The thought has crossed my mind.
STARLING: Well, it wouldn't get you anything. I've rigged the timeship. If you try to teleport it again, if you even go near it, Los Angeles will look like the face of the moon.
JANEWAY: You'd destroy an entire city? You don't care about the future, you don't care about the present. Does anything matter to you, Mister Starling?
STARLING: The betterment of mankind.
JANEWAY: It doesn't look like that.
STARLING: Why do you think I want to go to the future, a vacation?
JANEWAY: To get more technology. That's why you're launching the timeship.
STARLING: I've cannibalised the ship itself as much as I can. There's nothing left to base a commercial product on.
JANEWAY: And the future is just waiting to be exploited.
STARLING: You just don't get it, do you? I created the microcomputer revolution.
JANEWAY: Using technology you never should have had.
STARLING: Irrelevant. My products benefit the entire world. Without me there would be no laptops, no internet, no barcode readers. What's good for Chronowerx is good for everybody. I can't stop now. One trip to the twenty ninth century and I can bring back enough technology to start the next ten computer revolutions.
JANEWAY: If you even attempt to travel to the future, you risk creating a temporal explosion that could cost billions of lives, including your own.
STARLING: I'm willing to take that risk.
JANEWAY: In my time, Mister Starling, no human being would dream of endangering the future to gain advantage in the present.
STARLING: Captain, the future you're talking about, that's nine hundred years from now. I can't be concerned about that right now. I have a company to run and a whole world full of people waiting for me to make their lives a little bit better.
JANEWAY: Computer, reactivate forcefield. Chronowerx' stock is about to crash.

[Cellar]

PORTER: There are two forces at work in the world. The drive toward collectivity and the drive toward individuality. You are the former, and I am the latter.
TORRES: We told you. We are not from the United States Government, and we are not
PORTER: The Beast has many heads and I'm looking at two of them.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, I used to think violence could be the solution to a problem, but it's not true.
PORTER: You are no patriot.
CHAKOTAY: I was a freedom fighter, so I thought. That gun will get you nowhere.
(Butch enters with more men.)
BUTCH: Porter, they're coming! The Feds.
PORTER: How many?
BUTCH: Three cars and a chopper. Two miles up Edgemile Road.
PORTER: This is it, men. Get into position behind the house. Butch and me'll take these two.
(The newcomers arm themselves.)
PORTER: Looks like your friends out there still believe in violence. Too bad for you.

[Rain's Camper van]

RAIN: Let's recap. UFO in orbit, laser pistols, people vanishing. I've seen every episode of Mission Impossible. You're not secret agents.
PARIS: I told you, I can't talk about it.
RAIN: You can't keep a girl from hypothesising. I'm a scientist. I'm thinking, I'm thinking alternate dimension. I'm thinking close encounter.
PARIS: Whatever.
RAIN: Talk about a motley crew. We have the Doctor, a guy with the worst, worst taste in clothing I have ever seen. Tuvok, what a freakosaurus. Has the guy ever tried to smile?
PARIS: Not that I can recall.
RAIN: And you, Tom Paris. Sexy, in a Howdy Doody sort of way. Pretty goofy, although sometimes I think you're the smartest man I've ever met. All this running around you do, your mission. You're so dedicated, you know? Like you care about something more than just your own little life.
PARIS: Is that so unusual?
RAIN: Yeah. Whoa, I missed the turn.

[Chronowerx - Timeship]

COMPUTER: SATCOM 47 activating.
DUNBAR: Engage Starling location sweep.
COMPUTER: Sweep underway.
(Starling is pacing the surgical alcove, under the watchful eyes of two security guards.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: We're in Arizona. Chakotay and Torres are thirty kilometres north east of Phoenix.
JANEWAY: Good. Get to them as soon as you can.
KIM: Captain, there's a transport in progress.
JANEWAY: What?
KIM: Starling's gone. He's beamed to the surface.
JANEWAY: He's got some kind of satellite in orbit.
KIM: He sent a transporter signal through our shields like they weren't there.
JANEWAY: Where's Starling now?
KIM: Tracking the signal. He's back at the Chronowerx building.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Mister Dunbar, good work. I think it's time to get out of here.

[Rain's Camper van - outside Chronowerx]

PARIS: I guess this is goodbye.
RAIN: Guess it is. Listen, are you busy tomorrow night? Because, er, you know, we should hang together.
PARIS: I can't.
RAIN: Oh, well, what about this weekend? You're married.
PARIS: Absolutely not. Just very busy.
RAIN: Yeah, you've got to get back to Mars, right?
PARIS: Saturn.
RAIN: That's perfect! I told you I always loved Saturn! So, give me your phone number.
PARIS: Rain.
(The tricorder beeps.)
PARIS: Tachyon emissions.
(A big truck is leaving the area.)
PARIS: They're moving the timeship.
RAIN: Timeship? What are you talking about?
PARIS: You wouldn't mind hanging with me for a while longer, huh?

[Cellar]

POLICE [OC]: We want the aircraft, and the occupant from the aircraft.
PORTER: Get off my land!
TORRES: What are they going to do when they find a half-Klingon in here.
POLICE [OC]: Who the hell are you two?
TUVOK [OC]: Please stand aside, Officer.
POLICE [OC]: I'm warning both of you to
PORTER: They've got lasers! A black man and some bald guy.
(The EMH enters. Porter and Butch's bullets go straight through him.)
PORTER: God in heaven help us.
EMH: Divine intervention is unlikely.
(The EMH phaser stuns them, then unties Torres and Chakotay.)
EMH: Tuvok's at the shuttle. He's starting repairs.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, how?
EMH: It's a long story, Commander. Suffice it to say, I'm making a house call.

[Bridge]

KIM: It's Paris again, Captain, on audio.
JANEWAY: Status report, Tom.
PARIS [OC]: We just turned off the main highway

[Arizona - Rain's Camper van]

PARIS: Onto a desert road.
RAIN: Hi, this is Rain Robinson. You don't know me, but the point is there is zero traffic on this road.

[Bridge]

RAIN [OC]: They're going to know we're following them.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Miss Robinson. I'll keep that in mind. Tom, we've scanned the area. There appears to be a small landing field about ten kilometres ahead of you.

[Arizona - Rain's Camper van]

PARIS: It could be his launch site.
JANEWAY: Stay on him.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Our weapons are still offline and Torres hasn't finished repairing the shuttle. It might all be up to you.

[Arizona - Rain's Camper van]

PARIS: I'll do my best. Paris out.
(Dunbar, who is driving the truck, makes a left turn and fires his phaser out of the window.)
PARIS: Look out!
(Paris grabs the wheel and they swerve, then follow.)
PARIS: Get in behind him.
RAIN: What?
PARIS: Right off his bumper. Little closer.
RAIN: Forget it.
PARIS: One more metre!
RAIN: Just shoot!
(Paris shoots out one of the truck's tyres. It swerves and brakes, kicking up a cloud of dust, and so does Rain. The camper engine stops and she cannot restart it.)
PARIS: It's flooded. Give it a second.
RAIN: Well, do you think we got him?
PARIS: I think so.
(The truck is heading back towards them over a crest in the road.)
RAIN: Come on.
PARIS: Jump!
(They do, then the shuttlecraft arrives and phasers the truck.)

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. What's your status?

[Arizona - highway]

PARIS: We're fine. Good shooting.

[Shuttlecraft]

TORRES: Wasn't there supposed to be a timeship in that truck? Scanning the debris.
CHAKOTAY: There's a temporal transponder, set to give off tachyon signals. Chakotay to Voyager. The timeship's not here, Captain. It was a ruse. Starling's going to launch from a different site.

[Chronowerx - Timeship]

STARLING: Activate hyper-impulse.
COMPUTER: Hyper-impulse drive engaged.
STARLING: Let's do it.
COMPUTER: Command confirmed.
(The timeship Aeon smashes out of the penthouse floor of the Chronowerx skyscraper.)

[Bridge]

KIM: The timeship is entering the upper ionosphere.
JANEWAY: Track his course. Janeway to shuttlecraft, return to Voyager immediately.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain.
JANEWAY: Phasers are still offline. I've armed the photon torpedoes but we still can't fire them. The launch activation sequencers aren't responding.
KIM: I think I can reroute fire command through the helm.
JANEWAY: There's no time. Take the bridge, Mister Kim. Should be second nature to you by now.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Open the access port to torpedo bay one. I'm going in there to reconfigure for manual launch.
KIM: Captain, with the activation sequencers down, you'd have to launch from inside the tube. It's too dangerous. The plasma exhaust will
JANEWAY: You have your orders.

[Shuttlecraft]

TORRES: I've got the transporters back online.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, stand by. We're bringing you aboard.

[Arizona - highway]

PARIS: Acknowledged.
RAIN: Your spaceship's waiting.
PARIS: I've never met anyone quite like you, and I don't think I ever will.
RAIN: Same here. Say hi to Saturn for me.
PARIS: I will.
(Paris kisses Rain goodbye.)

[Timeship]

STARLING: Initiate temporal inversion.
COMPUTER: Initiating.

[Torpedo tube one]

KIM [OC]: Bridge to Janeway. The shuttle's back on board.
JANEWAY: Good. I'm nearly there.
KIM [OC]: Captain, the timeship has jumped to warp one.
JANEWAY: Go to warp. We can't loose him now.

[Bridge]

KIM: Welcome to the Bridge, Doctor.
EMH: Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here.
CHAKOTAY: Status.
KIM: The Captain's in torpedo tube one. She's preparing for a manual launch.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get down there.
EMH: How exactly to I get to torpedo tube one?
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kaplan, go with him.
KAPLAN: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: The timeship is powering its temporal field generator. Starling will be able to open a rift within seconds.
KIM: Commander, the field he's creating? It's unstable.
TORRES: If he enters the rift like this the timeship will create a temporal explosion.
TUVOK: Events are occurring just as Captain Braxton predicted. The disaster may well be inevitable.
CHAKOTAY: Fate, Tuvok? I won't accept that. Close to within ten kilometres. We'll ram him if we have to.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Timeship]

COMPUTER: Temporal core has reached cascade potential.
STARLING: Penetration point at nine six mark zero four seven.

[Torpedo tube one]

JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. I've reconfigured for manual launch.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Arm the torpedo.
TUVOK: Torpedo armed.

[Torpedo tube one]

JANEWAY: Lock on target.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Locked on.
CHAKOTAY: Hail Starling.
KIM: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: This is Voyager. Pull away from the rift.
STARLING [on viewscreen]: Or what? Your weapons are down, friend. See you sometime.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Janeway. Captain, we have no other choice.
KIM: He's entering the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!
(Janeway is knocked backwards by the launch gases.)

[Timeship]

STARLING: Uh oh!
(The Aeon goes KaBOOM just before it reaches the rift, which closes.)

[Turbolift]

EMH: Captain, I insist you come to sickbay.
JANEWAY: There'll be plenty of time for that, Doctor.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The Bridge is yours, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is there a chance in hell we can reopen that rift?
KIM: Captain, the rift is opening. There's something coming out. It's the timeship.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
TUVOK: We are being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen. Captain Braxton.
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Do you know me?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, unfortunately.
JANEWAY: You tried to destroy our ship in the twenty fourth century and the next time we saw you, you were an old man, homeless, in 1996.
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: I never experienced that timeline.
PARIS: Then what are you doing here?
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: In my century we can scan time, much as you use sensors to scan space. The Temporal Integrity Commission detected your vessel over twentieth century Earth. I was sent to correct that anomaly. Prepare to follow me back into the rift. I'm returning you to your own time, to your previous coordinates in the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Captain, we've been trying to get home to Earth for the last two years. Can you return us to our century but keep us here, in the Alpha Quadrant?
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry. Temporal Prime Directive. I'm afraid you're on your own. Braxton out.
KIM: The timeship is re-entering the rift.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, follow him in.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

Captain's log, stardate 50312.5. We are again in the Delta Quadrant, at the exact time and place we first encountered the timeship. I've resumed a course for Earth and I've ordered the crew to the Mess Hall for a toast.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Cheers. To the future.
PARIS: Hear, hear.
JANEWAY: How long will you be out and about, Doctor.
EMH: If you're referring to my new found mobility, that is entirely up to me.
TORRES: I'm still trying to figure out exactly how the Doctor's autonomous emitter works, but it looks like downloading him back into the ship's computer isn't going to be much of a problem.
EMH: Apparently the reverse is also true. I will be able to make use of the emitter as casually as you might slip on a pair of shoes.
TORRES: It's a little more involved than that.
EMH: You know, Kes, now that I'll be to and fro, your responsibilities in sickbay will increase.
KES: I'm up to the challenge, Doctor, but what about you? There's going to be more to your life than sickbay.
EMH: Nothing I can't handle. You know, Captain, I've always wanted a little more privacy. Perhaps under the circumstances, my own quarters.
JANEWAY: One step at a time, Doctor.
PARIS: You should have seen it when the parking enforcement officer came over to the van. Tuvok tried to use pure Vulcan logic to talk her out of giving us a citation.
CHAKOTAY: Did it work?
PARIS: Of course not!
TUVOK: Given Mister Paris's alleged familiarity with twentieth century America, it is a wonder we survived the experience at all.
PARIS: Tuvok, has anyone ever told you you're a real freakosaurus.


S3 E10
Warlord
Stardate: 50348.1
Original Airdate: November 20, 1996

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
(Neelix is enjoying a foot massage. He appears to have a big toe on either end of his feet. A stern waiter in a black jacket brings him a drink on a tray. Kim and Paris are sitting nearby.)
NEELIX: Oh, Gallia nectar! From a blossom which only grows near a certain lake on Paxau and blooms once every six years. Specialty of the house.
KIM: This is a real place?
NEELIX: The Paxau resort was the place to go on Talax for serious relaxation and some personal pampering. It was very exclusive. You had to be rich and privileged, or know someone rich and privileged who owed you a favour. I'd say if anyone deserves and needs a little pampering, it's this crew. Don't you feel as if all your cares are just light years away?
KIM: Yeah, it's nice.
NEELIX: I'm certainly open to any suggestions for perfecting the programme.
PARIS: Maybe it could use a little more, er, fun.
KIM: Loosen it up.
PARIS: Yeah, right. Like this guy. He's so formal. Computer, give the waiter a more casual look. And have him serve Rekarri starbursts all around. Now, what we need around here are some more people.
KIM: Computer, add characters from Kim Sports Programme Theta Two.
(Three fit young ladies in tight, shiny beachwear.)
PARIS: What sport would that be, exactly?
KIM: Volleyball. They're a Championship team. Gold medal winners in 2216.
PARIS: No wonder your game's improved.
KIM: You know, this would be even better with more upbeat music.
PARIS: Computer, access the cultural database and create musicians from Earth's Caribbean region.
(A steel band starts playing.)
PARIS: Now this is relaxing.
NEELIX: More drinks for everyone, and bring out some spicy paraka wings. You can't have a party without food.
JANEWAY [OC]: All senior officers, report to the bridge.
KIM: Great programme, Neelix.
PARIS: Save it for us, will you?
NEELIX: I certainly will. Hey, how can you listen to this without feeling the urge to dance?

[Kes' quarters]

(Kes is tending some plants.)
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Kes. Please report here immediately. I've been informed we may have incoming casualties.
KES: On my way, Doctor.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, sensor readings indicate that radiation inside the alien vessel is rising to toxic levels. The lifesigns of the passengers are growing weaker.
TORRES: Their warp core is heavily damaged. It's leaking drive plasma and gamma radiation. It could breach any time.
CHAKOTAY: Can we beam the passengers out through all that radiation?
KIM: Not from here. We'd have to get within five thousand kilometres.
TUVOK: At that range, we'll be at risk if their engine core explodes.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, take us into range.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Closing to within five thousand kilometres.
KIM: I'm diverting warp power to the targeting scanners, trying to get a pattern lock. There's still too much interference.
JANEWAY: A little closer, Tom.
TORRES: Captain, I'm reading an energy build-up in the reaction chamber.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: I've got a lock. Initiating transport.
TORRES: They're losing anti-matter containment.
JANEWAY: Shields up. Move us away.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
(The alien ship goes KaBOOM.)
TUVOK: All major systems are undamaged.
KIM: I've got them, Captain. All three passengers are in sickbay.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Start with the dermal regenerator on the worst of the radiation burns and scan for contamination of the surrounding tissue.
(Kes goes to the man making the most noise.)
KES: It's all right, it's all right, we're taking care of you now.
EMH: You must lie still. You have internal injuries.
NORI: My husband, is he all right?
EMH: I'll sedate you if necessary.
KES: Doctor, his heart's stopped. He's not responding to cardiac induction.
EMH: Give him twenty milligrams of lectrazine. No effect. His biochemistry is incompatible with our medications.
KES: No synaptic activity.
EMH: The tissue damage is too extensive. There's nothing more I can do for him. Record the time.
NORI: No, you must save him! Tieran.
KES: I'm so sorry.
NORI: He can't be gone. He can't.

[Ready room]

ADIN: It was horrible. They chased us across half the sector. We were finally able to fight them off, but not before our own ship was damaged.
JANEWAY: Do you know who was chasing you?
ADIN: This particular trade route has always been plagued by mercenaries and thieves. I'm sure they wanted to take our ship and hold us for ransom. I'm a very prominent physician and Nori is a cousin of the Autarch.
NORI: We're grateful for your help, Captain. We're complete strangers to you but we owe you our lives.
JANEWAY: I regret that we weren't able to save your husband as well.
NORI: I know your medical staff did everything they could, and Kes has been so kind and compassionate that I don't think I could be making it through this time without her.
ADIN: I certainly hope that bringing us home won't take us too far out of your way.
JANEWAY: Not at all. We'll reach Ilari in less than two days.
ADIN: When we arrive, I'm sure that the Autarch will want to thank you personally.
JANEWAY: I'll be very pleased to meet him.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]

(B'Elanna arrives in a swimsuit.)
NEELIX: Oh. Hello, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Good to see you too.
NEELIX: I was hoping you'd be Kes. She was supposed to meet me here twenty minutes ago. It's not like her to be late.
TORRES: She must have gotten held up with some work.
NEELIX: I wasn't sure you'd enjoy the programme with the new modifications Harry and Tom added.
TORRES: Well, I've made a few modifications of my own.
(She beckons over a fit young man wearing cutaway speedos. He gives her a towel.)
TORRES: Thank you. Great programme, Neelix.
NEELIX: Computer, locate Kes.
COMPUTER: Kes is in Transporter room one.

[Transporter room one]

(Kes is with Adin and Nori.)
ADIN: Don't you worry about using a device that takes apart your molecules and sends them flying through space?
KES: There are all kinds of safely procedures and back-up systems to make sure nothing goes wrong.
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Kes.
KES: Kes here.
NEELIX [OC]: I hope you didn't forget our lunch date in the holodeck?
KES: I'm sorry, I'll be right there. I have to go. I'll see you later.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]

(Kes is not even toying with her food.)
NEELIX: Are you feeling all right, sweeting?
KES: It's just a slight headache.
NEELIX: Well, we should get you to sickbay.
KES: I'll be fine. Really.
NEELIX: After lunch, we could go out for a sail.
KES: That sounds nice, but can we do it some other time? I promised to show Nori and Adin the airponics bay this afternoon.
NEELIX: You certainly seem to have hit it off with our guests. You've been nearly inseparable since they got here.
KES: Nori really needs a friend right now. I want to be there for her. So I hope you understand I'll be busy with her and Adin for the next few days.
NEELIX: We can keep them busy together. I'll arrange so many fun activities Nori won't have time to be sad. We can start with a lovely picnic
KES: This is typical of you, Neelix.
NEELIX: What? Wanting to help?
KES: It bothers you that I'm making friends of my own. You always have to involve yourself somehow.
NEELIX: Why, I certainly don't mean to intrude on your friendships. You can spend time with anyone you want.
KES: As long as I still spend most of it with you.
NEELIX: No. I, I'd hope that you'd want to be with me, at least some of the time. It's not a duty or an obligation.
KES: Well, sometimes it feels that way.
NEELIX: If you feel this way, why haven't you said so before?
KES: Maybe I never realised a relationship could be any different. I've never been with anyone but you. It might be a good idea for both of us to spend some time apart. I'm sorry.

Captain's log, stardate 50348.1. We've entered orbit around Ilari and sent a message to the Autarch inviting him to visit the ship. Instead, he'll be sending an official representative.

[Transporter room one]

NORI: The Autarch might have taken a personal interest in our welfare.
JANEWAY: I'm sure he does. Our message made it very clear that you had both completely recovered.
(Kes enters.)
ADIN: I'm so glad you could join us.
JANEWAY: Beam our guest aboard. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway
(Kes phasers the new arrival and the transporter operator. Janeway pins her against the wall.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Commander, a phaser has been fired in Transporter room one.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Janeway.

[Transporter Room one]

JANEWAY: Emergency in Transporter room oh!
(Adin knocks Janeway out.)
TIERAN-KES: They've activated a security alert. Secure the door like I showed you.

[Bridge]

KIM: There's a transport in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Block it.
KIM: I'm locked out. Commander, it's one of the shuttlecraft. Someone is beaming it into space.

[Transporter Room one]

NORI: They're right outside the door.
TIERAN-KES: Everyone on the transporter pad now.
ADIN: You're sure this is safe?
TIERAN-KES: Maybe you'd rather stay here.

[Bridge]

KIM: Commander, three people just beamed to the shuttle. The two Ilarii, and Kes.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on the tractor beam.
PARIS: I'm trying, but the shields around the shuttle have been altered. They're scattering the beam.
CHAKOTAY: Target phasers at their engine core, just enough to knock out propulsion.
PARIS: It's too late. They've gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Set a course to follow them.
PARIS: I can't find the shuttle's warp trail. There's no sign of them on long range sensors.
TUVOK [OC]: Transporter room to Bridge. Ensign Martin and the Ilari representative are dead. The Captain is injured and has been beamed to sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: It looks like the shuttle's plasma injectors were remodulated to suppress their warp signature.
CHAKOTAY: You wouldn't think it was possible to make those adjustments so quickly.
KIM: It takes some incredibly precise calibrations. Someone on that shuttle really knows what they're doing.

[Shuttle]

ADIN: They didn't follow us.
TIERAN-KES: Of course not. They're still trying to figure out what happened.
NORI: What's wrong? Does your head hurt?
TIERAN-KES: A little. It's nothing.
NORI: Adin should take a look.
TIERAN-KES: I said it's nothing! You're worse than that Talaxian.
ADIN: We're in position over the encampment now. Looks like Resh's assembled the troops right on schedule. Four hundred men just waiting for your orders.
TIERAN-KES: Maybe we should give them some.
(Kes beams Resh aboard.)
RESH: What is this? Nori! I heard your ship had been destroyed.
TIERAN-KES: You didn't think I'd let a little accident stop me, do you?
RESH: That's Tieran?
TIERAN-KES: The host body you were expecting is dead. Fortunately a young nurse was with me at the right time, and she's provided me with a very suitable replacement.
RESH: Oh, I'm very relieved you survived.
TIERAN-KES: Oh, I'm sure you are, at least for your own ambitions. I want you to advance my troops to the northern ridge.
RESH: But we can't go ahead with the attack now!
TIERAN-KES: Are you questioning my orders?
RESH: This is insane. We've spent years planning this, every move, every detail, and now suddenly our leader's been reduced to a little girl?
TIERAN-KES: I've been exploring the mind of this little girl and I've discovered some rather interesting abilities.
(Resh starts to choke.)
TIERAN-KES: She had barely begun to tap into them. It's a good thing I came along, so all that wasted potential could be turned to a greater purpose. Now, should I continue the demonstration, or do I have your loyalty?
RESH: You shall have it. Sir.

Captain's log, stardate 50351.4. We're holding a meeting with Demmas, the Autarch's eldest son and heir, in an effort to understand the recent hostile activity.

[Briefing room]

DEMMAS: I'm sure they really wanted to kill my father. He's the one they invited up to your ship. Nori and Adin are known to be political extremists.
JANEWAY: How could Kes be involved?
DEMMAS: I may be able to explain that. You mentioned that she was with the third patient when he died?
EMH: That's right. Why?
DEMMAS: I believe your crewmember has been inhabited by the consciousness of a very dangerous man, named Tieran.
NEELIX: Who is that? What does he want with Kes?
DEMMAS: Oh, I know exactly what he wants. To overthrow my family's government and to reinstate himself as the Autarch.
TUVOK: He has held title before?
DEMMAS: Tieran ruled Ilari over two centuries ago. He was a war hero, a brilliant military leader. He brought security and stability during a difficult time in our history. But in peace time, he began to treat his own subjects as enemies. He became convinced everyone was a potential traitor.
CHAKOTAY: At some point your people must have rebelled.
DEMMAS: They did, led by one of my ancestors. They laid siege to the Imperial Hall for over a year and the city around it was burned to the ground, but Tieran was finally defeated.
TUVOK: And yet you believe that he, or at least his consciousness, has survived.
DEMMAS: During his reign he became obsessed with his own mortality. He spent most of his time, and Ilari's resources, searching for ways to overcome death. Somehow he's discovered a way to transfer his own mind into someone else's body, as he's done with Kes.
NEELIX: So he's been controlling her.
DEMMAS: Yes. Completely.
NEELIX: But she, he knew things about Kes's life. He acted enough like Kes to fool us all. The real Kes must still be in there somewhere.
DEMMAS: Tieran may have access to her memories and her feelings, but the Kes you know is lost. I'm very sorry.
JANEWAY: I'm not prepared to accept that yet. Examine the body of the man who died. We need more information about how the transfer works if we want to get Kes back.
DEMMAS: That's certainly worth exploring, Captain, but our priority must be to stop Tieran. By force if necessary. Voyager is a powerful ship.
JANEWAY: You may be considering force, but my only intention is to rescue Kes and remove Tieran's consciousness. That should suit both our interests.
DEMMAS: You don't understand what's at stake here, Captain. You must help me to defend my people.
PARIS [OC]: Bridge to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS [OC]: We've located the missing shuttle.
JANEWAY: On my way. Let's hope we can put an end to this right now.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They entered orbit, then dropped their shields and cut their engines.
KIM: There's a residual trace of transporter activity. Looks like four people beamed from the shuttle to the surface.
DEMMAS: They're in the main chamber of the Imperial Hall.
JANEWAY: Lock onto those patterns and beam them back to Voyager.
KIM: I can't. Some kind of interference has gone up around the whole structure.
DEMMAS: He's after my family, my father and brother are down there.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]

(The guards are quickly dealt with.) 
TIERAN-KES: Ah, the venerated Autarch. I've been looking forward to meeting you for a long time.
(Tieran kills the Autarch.)
AMERON: Father!
(Ameron tries to attack Tieran.)
TIERAN-KES: Where's his brother?
RESH: He should have been here.
TIERAN-KES: Get him out of here. Lock him up!
ADIN: I think I've located the brother. According to security logs Demmas was transported to Voyager over an hour ago.
TIERAN-KES: He's going to be a problem but we'll have to deal with him at another time. Give me the talisman. 
(Adin takes a metal collar from the neck of the Autarch.)
TIERAN-KES: This was stolen from me two hundred years ago, and I've dedicated every moment since to putting it back where it belongs.
ADIN: Loyalty and service to the new Autarch.
NORI: Loyalty and service.
(Later, the bodies of the guards are being dragged away, and Kes has changed into a skin-tight leather catsuit. She is issuing orders to Resh.)
TIERAN-KES: I want you to pay a visit to my supporters in Yaro province. Give them all new titles, whatever I promised. And of course, I couldn't overlook your faithful service. I think the title First Castellan suits you very well. I feel like I've finally come home again. The trouble is I left it. My portrait should be hanging here. As for the rest of this nonsense, it's nothing more than a useless display of wealth. As if the First Autarch needs to impress anyone. I want it all cleared out of here. Everything should look as it did during my reign!
(Except for a vase of flowers and foliage. Tieran brings one of the flowers to Nori.)
TIERAN-KES: I trust you'll take care of all that. And we'll need some new servants, too. What is it? You don't look happy.
NORI: I'm happy that we've accomplished our goal, but there have been some unexpected changes and I don't know how they'll affect our future together. I don't even know if I'm still your wife.
TIERAN-KES: Forgive me, I haven't considered how unsettling this must be for you. Don't worry. You know how much I depend on you. Your loyalty and encouragement have helped make this victory possible. I'll share everything with you, just as I always promised.
(Tieran leans into kiss Nori.)
GUARD: Autarch!
TIERAN-KES: Now I'm afraid I have business to attend to. Leave him here. Everyone else is dismissed. Ameron, you and I haven't had a chance to get acquainted. I'm Tieran.
AMERON: Tieran?
TIERAN-KES: I like the way you say that. You and I didn't get off to a very good start, did we?
AMERON: You murdered my father right in front of me.
TIERAN-KES: I shouldn't have let you watch that, I'm sorry. But his death was necessary to make room for his successor.
AMERON: Demmas is the rightful heir, not you.
TIERAN-KES: How many times have people said the very same thing to you? It must have been hard to hear, every day, the constant reminder that your brother is destined to be ruler just because he was lucky enough to be born first. I don't think that's fair, do you?
AMERON: It's the law.
TIERAN-KES: Doesn't have to be. It can change. Demmas is off hiding on some alien ship and you're here, with me. I'm sure it's an opportunity you've always dreamed of, to prove that you're really the natural leader and not just a weak copy of your father. Now you can have that chance, if you're willing to take it.
AMERON: You mean if I join you.
TIERAN-KES: We have so much to offer each other. Your heritage would help solidify my claim and in return I could give you power. Real power to control the lives of millions of people. To reward your friends, punish your enemies. Everything you want can be yours for the asking. Everything.
(Tieran drapes herself over Ameron's shoulders.)
AMERON: After what you've done?
TIERAN-KES: That's all in the past. You should be thinking about the future. Would you rather be a martyr to your brother's cause, or rule by my side?

Captain's log, supplemental. Demmas has decided to remain on board Voyager for the time being, but continues to monitor the worsening situation on Ilari.

[Ready room]

DEMMAS: This coup attempt is turning my people against each other. They're splitting into factions, mine and Tieran's.
TUVOK: Whom does the law recognise as Autarch?
DEMMAS: Officially, I inherited my father's title upon his death. But this isn't a matter of law, it's about loyalty. Some people will follow whoever has more power and right now that's Tieran. He's gaining support everyday. He's already recruited some of my less reliable allies, which may include my brother, Ameron.
JANEWAY: Your brother? I assumed he'd been killed.
DEMMAS: So did I, until I learned otherwise from sources on Ilari. Tieran spared his life no doubt in order to win his loyalty. Ameron's always been easily swayed.
TUVOK: And you believe he would betray you?
DEMMAS: That's very possible. And if he does there will be no way to avoid a civil war. I must strike now, before Tieran is fully prepared!
JANEWAY: There are always alternatives to war. Before you send in your fleet I suggest we hear from the Doctor and consider the possibility of removing Tieran from Kes safely.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've identified the transfer mechanism. This cortical implant was automatically activated at the moment of death. It enhanced Tieran's neural pattern and sent it out along the peripheral nerves. The actual transfer took place through these bio-electric microfibres. When they came into direct contact with Kes they transmitted Tieran's pattern up through her nervous system and into her brain.
DEMMAS: I assume Tieran would implant a device like this in his new body as quickly as possible.
TUVOK: Perhaps we can use that to our advantage.
EMH: My thoughts exactly. This synaptic stimulator will tap into the implant in Kes's body and remove the alien neural pattern. Then her own consciousness can take over.
DEMMAS: Yes, but how close would you have to get to use this device?
EMH: To be fully effective it would have to come in direct contact with her skin.
DEMMAS: If I could get anywhere near her, I'd use a thoron rifle to be absolutely sure.
JANEWAY: Not if you want my help. Kes is still a member of this crew, under my protection.
DEMMAS: I'm very sorry she got caught in the middle of this, Captain, but too many other innocent lives have already been lost. Including my father's.
JANEWAY: Then let's work together to prevent any more deaths. Don't risk the lives of your soldiers until you've exhausted every other option.
DEMMAS: What exactly do you suggest?
TUVOK: If Tieran is anticipating an attack by your fleet, he may not be guarding as carefully against an individual infiltrating the Imperial Hall. I believe I would be able to get close enough to Kes to use the Doctor's device.
JANEWAY: Your knowledge of the Hall and its defences would be invaluable to us.
DEMMAS: All right, we'll try your strategy.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]

ADIN: The new cortical implant looks fine. Let me just make sure it's connecting properly to the nerve pathways.
TIERAN-KES: Do something about these headaches while you're at it. They make it difficult to concentrate.
ADIN: That's an entirely different problem. This body isn't accepting your neural pattern very easily. She wasn't a willing host like the others.
TIERAN-KES: She's been resisting me all right. I can feel her in the back of my mind somewhere like a trapped animal, rattling her cage. She's a lot of spirit. It's invigorating.
ADIN: Your neural pattern may become unstable if you stay in this host. Now that we've got the transfer mechanism in place, I suggest you use it to move into a more compatible body.
TIERAN-KES: No! I like this one. Particularly the unique mental abilities that come with it.
ADIN: Consider the risks!
TIERAN-KES: Do you really think a child like this poses any threat to me? I've been fighting worse battles since the day I was born. When the doctor said I wouldn't live past my first year I proved them wrong. Even when my parents thought I was too sickly to be worth caring for, I survived on the streets. Even when my own ungrateful subjects forced me into exile I refused to accept defeat. I certainly won't surrender to this little girl! You will not suggest it again.
(Later, Tieran' council is in session.)
RESH: Demmas has acquired two more ships.
ADIN: There are reports that his fleet are massing behind the fifth moon. We should make a pre-emptive strike.
TIERAN-KES: Not on the basis of an unsubstantiated rumour. Let him come to us. We'll be ready.
NORI: I'm told that the Viceroy of Genarr is ready to give you his support in exchange for more territory.
TIERAN-KES: When did corruption become so commonplace? My people are crying out for moral leadership. I should make an example out of this Viceroy.
ADIN: What's wrong?
TIERAN-KES: There's someone.
NORI: Tieran?
TIERAN-KES: There's a familiar presence in this room. Not any of you. Someone from this body's previous life. Someone she knew well. Seal the room! We have an uninvited guest.
RESH: Everyone stay where you are.
NORI: Who is he?
TIERAN-KES: Someone very good at concealing himself and his thoughts. A disciplined, logical mind.
(Tieran raises the guard's veils to see their faces.)
TIERAN-KES: You've made it this far without being detected, but you didn't realise how much more perceptive I've become. Typical Vulcan arrogance. It's touching really, your concern for the life of your little student, risking yourself in a hopeless effort to save her.
(Disguised Tuvok steps out from behind a pillar and puts the synaptic stimulator on Kes' cheek.)
RESH: Get that off!
(Resh removes the device and reveals Tuvok.)
NORI: Are you all right?
TIERAN-KES: Yes, I'm fine, and still perfectly in control of this body, but my compliments on your clever medical technology.
NORI: An attack on the Autarch is punishable by death.
TIERAN-KES: She's so protective of me. But I think Voyager's tactical officer might be more useful to me alive.
TUVOK: You know that I won't provide you with any information.
TIERAN-KES: You'd be surprised how often I've heard that.

[Detention cell]

TIERAN-KES: Who helped you get past my security? Who betrayed me?
TUVOK: I had no assistance.
TIERAN-KES: What will Janeway do when you don't come back? Send someone else? Join Demmas in an assault?
TUVOK: I have no knowledge of the Captain's plans.
TIERAN-KES: She must have discussed alternate strategies with you before you came on this mission.
TUVOK: She did not.
TIERAN-KES: I suppose I could threaten you, or torture you, but I doubt that would make any difference.
TUVOK: You are correct.
TIERAN-KES: Fortunately I have other options now. With these new abilities, it's a simple matter to reach into someone's mind. With some people it's effortless. Others require a little more work.
(Tieran reaches for Tuvok's face, and he grabs her wrists.)
TIERAN-KES: Do you really think you can keep me away from your innermost thoughts? Your fears and insecurities? Your feelings? I sense an embarrassment at being captured, worry about how strong I really am, and of course there's anger. That's the emotion that really threatens your control. So you try even harder to hide from me. I feel those mental barriers going up. Do you notice that it doesn't seem to be working? As if someone were disrupting your ability to concentrate. [telepathically] It's a helpless feeling, isn't it.
TUVOK: You will not break my control.
TIERAN-KES: [telepathically] Not break you, free you from all that repression. All you have to do is let go. I can help you release your own strength, and give you what you've always secretly desired.
TUVOK: I have never desired Kes.
TIERAN-KES: [telepathically] All those hours you spent alone together, all those intimate moments touching each other's minds, you've never even wondered what it might be like?
(Tieran kisses Kes, and Tuvok initiates a mind-meld.)
TUVOK: Kes!
KES: I'm here. I'm fighting him.
TUVOK: I had no doubt you would be.
KES: There are times when he's weaker I can almost break through.
TUVOK: Tap into his strengths, and make them your own.
KES: I'm losing hold.
TUVOK: I am with you. Don't let go.
TIERAN-KES: No!
(Tieran pushes Tuvok against the rock wall, knocking him out.)

Captain's log, stardate 50361.7. Lieutenant Tuvok hasn't reported for our scheduled rendezvous and we've been unable to contact him. We're now considering other, more forceful, options.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Our team will beam down to the surface approximately two kilometres from the palace. Demmas and his advanced guard will meet us there.
NEELIX: Captain, I request permission to go with you on the rescue team. I had basic combat training on Talax. All right, very basic. But I've also been participating in tactical exercises with this crew every month. I have a lifetime of experience thinking on my feet, and you know I'll do everything in my power to make this mission a success.
JANEWAY: Consider yourself drafted.
DEMMAS: The detection grid will make a surprise attack difficult.
PARIS: Well then, we'll have to find a way to knock out the grid.
KIM: I've been scanning it for weaknesses. The system goes through a maintenance cycle every ten hours. There are a few seconds when it might be vulnerable to a narrow band EM pulse.
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge to the Captain. You have an incoming transmission from the planet.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
TIERAN-KES [on monitor]: Captain, you failed.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
TIERAN-KES [on monitor]: I'm still in control. Your little device was useless and Tuvok is my prisoner. I suggest you call off your new rescue mission before you lose any more members of your crew.
DEMMAS: You've made a bad guess, Tieran. There will be no more rescues.
TIERAN-KES [on monitor]: My guess is that you've discovered the convenient weakness in the detection grid. If you attempt to take advantage of it, I'll have twice as many soldiers waiting for you.
CHAKOTAY: If this was meant to be a trap, why tell us about it?
TIERAN-KES [on monitor]: I'm really not a monster. I have no quarrel with Voyager. Your crew did save my life once when my ship was about to explode. I haven't forgotten that. This has been a friendly warning, Captain, but it's the last one. Now, I strongly suggest that you accept your losses and be on your way. You have thirty seconds to leave orbit.

[Imperial Hall -Council Chamber]

TIERAN-KES: Send two of my warships to intercept Voyager.
ADIN: You're not well.
TIERAN-KES: If you can't do anything about this pain, then leave me alone.
ADIN: You need to get some sleep.
TIERAN-KES: No, she's there when I sleep.
ADIN: She?
TIERAN-KES: Kes! Who else.
ADIN: You can't stay awake for the rest of your life.
RESH: The Voyager's leaving orbit.
TIERAN-KES: Let them go.
RESH: Yes, sir, but, with all due respect, why? Demmas is on that ship. Our warships are in position to destroy it.
TIERAN-KES: I told them they could go, and I keep my word. I don't have to explain myself to you. Get out! Everyone! Clear the room now!

[Inside Kes's head]

KES: You're losing, Tieran. Why won't you admit it?
TIERAN: I will admit that you surprised me. Who would have imagined that such fierce determination existed within that deceptively frail body.
KES: Don't continue to underestimate me. Release me, or I'll force you out.
TIERAN: My dear, why should we be enemies? Why waste the energy in conflict when we could achieve so much more by cooperating.
KES: You're contemptible, Tieran. I won't be any part of your plans.
TIERAN: You're already a part of them. You and I have killed together, remember? And you will continue to serve my will. You really have no choice. Wouldn't it be wiser to join me? To take advantage of all I have to offer. You may find that you enjoy having power. I assure you, it is the finest aphrodisiac there is.
KES: That may work with others, but it won't with me.
TIERAN: So, you insist on making this a battle. How foolish.
KES: It's a battle I intend to win.
TIERAN: Brave words. You've been an annoyance to me, nothing more.
KES: I've been more to you than that, and you know it. I'm fighting you with every bit of strength I have, and it's wearing you down. You're becoming more unstable every day. The headaches alone are almost more than you can stand.
TIERAN: I've suffered pain all my life. It's going to take more than headaches to stop me.
KES: I know all about your life. I know about your suffering. It doesn't justify what you've become. You're a monster, Tieran, and I have no compassion for you.
TIERAN: And I don't ask for any. What I need from you I already have. Your body and your mind.
KES: You may have my body but you'll never have my mind. I won't surrender it.
TIERAN: You may resist and try to fight me, but eventually I will defeat you. I haven't existed for two centuries to be brought down by a child!
KES: You're already deteriorating and it's only going to get worse. I'll find every little crack in your defences. You'll feel yourself crumbling from within, your sanity slipping away. I won't stop until you're broken and helpless. There's nowhere you can go to get away from me. I'll be relentless and merciless, just like you.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]

(Tieran wakes to find Adin scanning her.)
TIERAN-KES: What are you doing?
ADIN: You were in such a deep sleep I had to use a stimulant to bring you out of it. Your neural stress levels are extremely erratic. This has gone too far. You must transfer out of this body before it destroys you.
(Tieran makes blood flow from Adin's eyes.)
TIERAN-KES: I told you not to say that ever again! As you can see, I'm in full command of my faculties. This momentary lapse will pass and I'll be stronger than ever! Stronger than ever! Stronger than ever. Stronger than.
(Later, Tieran hands out goblets to her council.)
TIERAN-KES: My friends, we have much to celebrate tonight. Our recent victory, the consolidation of power among those who are loyal to us, and the fact that Ilari is poised on the bring of what will be it's greatest era of prosperity. But there's another occasion that's cause for celebration. One that is perhaps the most joyous of all. I'd like to present my husband to be.
(Ameron enters and Tieran kisses him.)
TIERAN-KES: (to Nori) Don't be upset, it's only a political alliance. Ameron will help bring the support of Demmas's troops. Ah, tell me you still love me.
NORI: You know I love you.
TIERAN-KES: Ameron! And Nori. You have both been essential to my success, and I want you to be close friends. I want us all to be very, very close. Ah, Nori, don't make me doubt your loyalty. I'm not listening to you!
RESH: Sir, enemy ships are approaching. At least twenty. It's Demmas's fleet, and Voyager.
TIERAN-KES: I assume our ships are moving to intercept them?
RESH: Yes, but we are outnumbered.
TIERAN-KES: I've always fought against the odds. My fleet will defeat them.
RESH: All the same, I recommend taking some precautions. We should get you to the reinforced shelter.
TIERAN-KES: This is a celebration to announce my marriage. I won't allow Demmas to make me run like some frightened animal. Join us. Food and drink for my First Castellan. I told you to join us. Drink! Eat! I want all of you to enjoy yourselves. My charitable projects, how are they progressing? When do we break ground for the new library?
NORI: Soon.
TIERAN-KES: Good. I want my people to know I have their welfare at heart. Tomorrow we'll send out an edict. Every citizen must have a garden.
NORI: A garden?
TIERAN-KES: I love plants, flowers, anything that grows. Some of the times I felt most content were those spent watching the seedlings grow in the airponics
(The building shakes.)
RESH: They've made it through our defences. They're sending down ground forces.
TIERAN-KES: That's impossible! You're lying!
RESH: I'm sending additional troops to the defensive positions. Activating full security measures. That ought to hold them off, but we have to go. Now.
TIERAN-KES: Anyone who tries to leave this room will be shot as a traitor.
RESH: Look for yourself!
(More shaking.)
TIERAN-KES: This has to be a trick, a ruse of some kind. That's what they're doing, they're creating a distraction to draw my attention away from their real plan.
NORI: Tieran, please, they're coming.
TIERAN-KES: They must have sent an infiltrator. We have an intruder! I know you're here somewhere, Tuvok, you don't realise how perceptive I've become. I know you're here!

[Detention cell]

PARIS: Tuvok!
(Paris zaps the forcefield generator.)
TUVOK: Mister Paris.
PARIS: No time for a tearful reunion. We've got to get you out of here.
(A guard who is lying doggo grabs Paris' leg and they struggle for the phaser rifle. Paris wins that one, and Tuvok wins his fight with another guard by using a neck-pinch.)
PARIS: Some day you're going to have to show me how to do that.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]

NORI: Don't give in. Stay with me. Tieran!
TIERAN-KES: Still here.
NORI: Fight it. You must fight it, Tieran. Please, keep fighting.
(Janeway, Neelix and Chakotay are behind a pillar.)
JANEWAY: Do you have the device ready? Now!
(Shooting. Resh carries Tieran out.)
NEELIX: They're getting away.
(Resh is shot in the back by Ameron.)
CHAKOTAY: I'll cover you.
NORI: We've got to get out, find a doctor and get you stabilised or transferred to a new host. You will survive.
NEELIX: Kes! Stop! Please, stay there. Just let me get to you and this will all be over.
(Neelix stuns Kes.)
AMERON: Tieran!
(Ameron briefly touches Tieran's hand before Demmas pulls him off. Neelix puts the cortical stimulator onto Tieran.)
KES: Tieran?
NEELIX: He's gone.
KES: No, he isn't. He's still here. He moved onto someone else before you used this. He wanted you to think he'd been destroyed, but he's hiding in a new host. I know you too well, Tieran.
TIERAN-AMERON: No! You can't do this!
KES: You died a long time ago. Now it's time to let go.
(Kes puts the stimulator onto Ameron. He screams.)
KES: Demmas, it's over.
(She gives him the Autarch's talisman.)

[Tuvok's quarters]

(A meditation lesson.)
TUVOK: Your thoughts are a turbulent ocean. Visualise yourself floating above them.
KES: I can't. I've been using all the meditations you've taught me, but they're not helping.
TUVOK: You must be patient, and allow yourself sufficient time. Don't attempt to deny the emotional impact of your experience.
KES: How can I worry about my own well-being when so many people have suffered and died?
TUVOK: You were not responsible for Tieran's actions.
KES: I can't help wondering whether I could have fought harder.
TUVOK: It was your absolute refusal to surrender which defeated him. You cannot ask more of yourself than that.
KES: Everything seems so different now. My thoughts and perceptions, even my relationships with my closest friends. You, the Doctor, Neelix. How can I go back to my normal life as if nothing ever happened?
TUVOK: You cannot. This experience will force you to adapt. You are no longer the same person, and the course of your life will change as a result. Where that new course leads is up to you.


S3 E11
The Q and the Grey
Stardate: 50384.2
27 November 1996

[Bridge]
(The crew witness a supernova in a nearby gaseous cloud.)
JANEWAY: Oh!
CHAKOTAY: Incredible.
JANEWAY: Absolutely thrilling.
NEELIX: All I can say is, wow! What about you, Mister Vulcan? Isn't that just, wow!
TUVOK: Your inarticulate expression of awe notwithstanding, Mister Neelix, it was a fascinating spectacle.
KIM: That's the edge of the shock wave. The pressure's over ninety kilopascals, thirty percent more than we predicted.
JANEWAY: Tom, back us off at full impulse. I want to stay ahead of the brunt of that wave.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Congratulations, everyone. Only two other crews in the history of Starfleet have witnessed a supernova explosion.
KIM: But neither one was this close. Less than ten billion kilometres. Definitely a record.
JANEWAY: Who brought the champagne?
NEELIX: Champagne? Captain, if I thought you wanted champagne.
JANEWAY: Relax, Neelix. It's a figure of speech.
KES: Thanks for inviting us to watch with you, Captain. It's really got me interested in learning more about stellar phenomenon.
EMH: Just remember, Kes, anyone can stargaze on the Bridge, even a hologram with a mobile emitter, but the real action will always be in sickbay.
JANEWAY: How'd those shield modifications hold up, B'Elanna?
TORRES: Less than a seven percent power drain.
JANEWAY: Good job. Chakotay, what do you say we get started analysing those carbon conversion readings?
CHAKOTAY: Captain, you've been on the Bridge for fourteen straight hours. Don't you think you deserve a little rest? Harry and I will get to work on the astrometric analysis, and we'll give you a full report in the morning.
JANEWAY: You win. I'll see you at oh seven hundred.  

[Janeway's quarters]

(Janeway enters her quarters, and sees a bed covered in red satin sheets with heart-shaped pillows.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to security. Intruder alert.
Q: There's no need to call room service, Kathy. I've already ordered.
(He is wearing a red silk dressing gown.)
JANEWAY: Oh, Q.
Q: You did say you wanted champagne?
JANEWAY: Janeway to security. Intruder alert.
Q: Oh, it's no use. I've taken the proverbial phone off the hook. After all, we don't want any interruptions.
JANEWAY: What are you doing here?
Q: To us.
JANEWAY: There is no us, Q.
Q: The night is young, and the sheets are satin.
JANEWAY: I want you out. But first, get rid of this bed.
Q: I have no intention of getting between those Starfleet issue sheets. They give me a terrible rash.
JANEWAY: Since you won't be getting in the bed, I wouldn't worry about it.
Q: Oh, Kathy, don't be such a prude. Admit it. It has been a while.
JANEWAY: And it's going to be a while longer. Now get out.
Q: So tense. Why don't you slip into something more comfortable?
(Flash, and she is in a silk nightdress.)
JANEWAY: If you think this puerile attempt at seduction is going to work, you're even more self-deluded than I thought.
Q: Now I see. You think I'm interested in some tawdry one night stand. That's because I haven't told you why I'm here yet. Out of all the females of all the species in all the galaxies, I have chosen you to be the mother of my child.
JANEWAY: Oh!
Q: I know that you're probably asking yourself, why would a brilliant, handsome, dashingly omnipotent being like Q want to mate with a scrawny little bipedal specimen like me?
JANEWAY: Let me guess. No one else in the universe will have you.
Q: Nonsense. I could have chosen a Klingon Targ, the Romulan empress, a Cyrillian microbe.
(Janeway puts on a dressing gown.)
JANEWAY: Really? I beat out a single-celled organism? How flattering.
Q: It's an overwhelming honour, isn't it? I can't get you out of my mind. You're confident, passionate, beautiful.
JANEWAY: And totally uninterested.
Q: Kathy, you can't leave. My cosmic clock is ticking. Besides, you have no idea what you're missing. Foreplay with a Q can last for decades.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but I'm busy for the next sixty or seventy years.
Q: Oh, I see, this is one of those silly human rituals. You're playing hard to get.
JANEWAY: As far as you're concerned, Q, I'm impossible to get.
Q: Goody! A challenge. This is going to be fun.
(Q disappears, and so does the awful bed.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay here, Captain.  

[Bridge]  

CHAKOTAY: I thought you were going to get some sleep.
JANEWAY [OC]: I've just had a visit from Q. He's gone now. 

[Janeway's quarters]  

JANEWAY: But I want to be notified immediately if he reappears anywhere on the ship or if anything odd starts to happen.  

[Bridge]  

CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. What did he want?  

[Janeway's quarters]  

JANEWAY: Let's just say he had a personal request.  

[Bridge]  

CHAKOTAY: Captain?  

[Janeway's quarters]  

JANEWAY: I'm not sure what he's really up to, but I have a feeling he'll be back. Janeway out.  

[Ready room]  

JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: I've got those carbon conversion readings from the supernova.
JANEWAY: Thank you. Is there something else?
CHAKOTAY: Have you heard anything more from Q?
JANEWAY: No. I wish I could believe he's gone for good.
CHAKOTAY: I was wondering just what just what you meant when you said he made a personal request.
JANEWAY: He wants to mate with me.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
JANEWAY: Obviously, it's out of the question. And I suspect it's a smoke screen. Knowing Q, he's probably got some hidden agenda.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I know I don't have any right to feel this way, but this bothers the hell out of me.
Q: I do believe you're jealous. (to Janeway) Why didn't you tell me there was another man?
(Q is in Starfleet uniform.)
JANEWAY: Because there isn't. I'm just not interested in you.
CHAKOTAY: Any more questions?
Q: I was wondering, Kathy. What could anyone possibly see in this big oaf, anyway? Is it the tattoo? Because mine's bigger.
(And covers the left half of his face.)
JANEWAY: Not big enough.  

Captain's log, stardate 50384.2. Q's unannounced visits continue. Since I suspect he's up to something more than pursuing me, I've instructed the crew to take every opportunity to uncover his true motives.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]  

(The volleyball team also give massages.)
PARIS: Who says crew performance reports have to be a chore?
KIM: Sure beats working on the bridge.
PARIS: Now if we could just convince the Captain to start holding morning briefings in here.
KIM: That'll be the day.
(The ladies are removed to a newcomer.)
Q: Nice programme, Tommy. But it's all just so much holo-pleasure, isn't it?
PARIS: All right, Q, we'll bite. What do you want?
Q: Guys, I just don't understand your Captain. I've tried everything. Filling the Bridge with roses, writing Drabian love sonnets, serenading her in her bath.
PARIS: Oh, I'll bet she loved that one.
Q: But no matter what lengths I go to win her heart, she rejects me. Me! How, I ask you, is that possible?
KIM: Did it ever occur to you that she just doesn't like you?
Q: No.
PARIS: Look, Q, we've been told about your appearances on the Enterprise. We know your little visits usually turn out to be more than meet the eye. So save your broken heart routine, and tell us what you're really after.
Q: I just thought that the two of you might be able to give me some advice on how to break through Kathy's icy exterior. You know, man to man.
PARIS: My advice would be to give up before you embarrass yourself anymore than you already have. Come on, Harry. We're not going to get a straight answer out of this guy.
Q: You, bar rodent, another one of these fruity concoctions.
NEELIX: Not unless you tell me why you're bothering Captain Janeway.
Q: Captain Janeway? Now that's a subject I want to discuss. Tell me, what are some of her favourite things. Chocolate truffles? Stuffed animals? Erotic art?
NEELIX: You can't bribe Captain Janeway.
Q: Oh, no? Isn't that what you do?
NEELIX: What are you talking about?
Q: I understand that you acquire things for her, create little interesting diversions, prepare little tasty treats. After all, why else would she be so fond of your fur-lined face?
NEELIX: Do you want to know what Captain Janeway likes about me? I'll tell you. I am respectful, loyal and most of all, sincere. And those are qualities which someone like you could never hope to possess.

[Ready room]  

(Janeway hears the whimpering of a small canine and goes to investigate. The cocker spaniel puppy is in a basket under her desk.)
JANEWAY: This isn't going to work, Q.
Q: How can you ignore that face?
JANEWAY: He's adorable. But this has to stop.
Q: Please, accept him as a small token of my affection.
JANEWAY: No.
Q: Suit yourself. May we talk? Just talk.
(Q sits on the bench below the windows, cradling the puppy. Janeway reluctantly joins him.)
Q: I'm afraid that I haven't been sincere. When you first asked why I wanted to have a child with you, I made jokes, bragged about my prowess, engaged in sexual innuendo. I was using all that to cover up my true feelings.
JANEWAY: And I suppose you want to share your true feelings with me now.
Q: I'm lonely.
JANEWAY: Lonely?
Q: Oh, I know it's hard to believe, but I've been single for billions of years. It was fun at first, gallivanting around the galaxy, using my omnipotence to impress females of every species. The fact of the matter is, it left me empty. I want someone to love me for myself. I guess what I'm saying is, I want a relationship. I just thought if you and I had a child, it would give me that kind of stability and security that I've been missing.
JANEWAY: Sorry, Q. I'm not buying it.
(He passes over the puppy.)
Q: Oh. All right. Let's see if you buy this. You're stuck out here, thousands of light years from home, and you aren't getting any younger, are you? All your hopes for home, hearth and family grow dimmer every day. Admit it, Kathryn, you're lonely too. And you wonder if you will ever have a child.
JANEWAY: You're right. I would like to have a child someday. But not with you.
Q: Why not?
JANEWAY: I'm just not the right kind of woman for you, Q.
FEMALE Q: Truer words were never spoken.
(A tall, sarcastic redhead in Starfleet uniform.)
Q: Q! How did you find me?
FEMALE Q: Never mind that. What are you doing with that dog? I'm not talking about the puppy.
Q: Can't you see I'm busy here? Stop stalking me.
FEMALE Q: You should be back in the Continuum.
JANEWAY: Excuse me, but who are you exactly?
Q: Kathryn Janeway, may I present Q.
FEMALE Q: Not just any Q. His Q.
Q: We were involved for a while.
FEMALE Q: About four billion years. And now you desert me to pollute the Continuum with the DNA of this narrow little being.
Q: I never said it was exclusive.
FEMALE Q: Stay away from him.
JANEWAY: Look, Miss Q, I'll save you a lot of trouble. I have zero interest in him.
Q: Oh! Now you see what you've done? And I was finally making progress.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Janeway. You'd better come in here, Captain.
JANEWAY: On my way.
(Janeway gives the puppy back to Q.)
JANEWAY: I'd really appreciate it if you would take this domestic squabble off my ship.  

[Bridge]  

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: You're not going to believe this, Captain, but another star in this cluster just went supernova. It's point oh two light years from our current position.
KIM: Make that two supernovas, Commander. I just picked up another one at two one seven mark four seven. Estimated time of implosion, sixty seven seconds.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, Tom.
PARIS: I can't. A subspace shock wave from the star is collapsing the warp field.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Tuvok, increase power to the shields. Tom, lay in a course away from that shock wave, maximum impulse.
(Miss Q is leaning against the rail. Q is further along.)
JANEWAY: A star going supernova is an event that occurs once every century in this galaxy. Now we're about to witness our third in less than three days, all in the same sector. Why do I suspect you have something to do with this?
FEMALE Q: She maybe a member of an intellectually challenged species, but she's right. Your irresponsible behaviour is continuing to have cosmic consequences.
Q: Will you stop overreacting? Always nagging. Now you see why I left her.
JANEWAY: Are you causing these supernovas?
Q: Well, not exactly.
JANEWAY: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: It's no use, Captain. the shock wave is too fast for us.
JANEWAY: Try evasive manoeuvres.
TUVOK: I'm afraid a course correction will be futile, Captain. There are now three distinct shock waves heading toward us on various trajectories. It will be impossible to avoid them all.
JANEWAY: Divert auxiliary power to the shields. (to Q) You have the ability to get us out of here, so do it.
CHAKOTAY: Sixteen seconds to impact. I'm not sure if the shields will hold.
JANEWAY: Do something, Q.
Q: Well, if you insist.
(Q snaps his fingers, and he and Janeway disappear.)
FEMALE Q: That two-timing toad!
(She vanishes as well.)
TUVOK: Contact with the first shock wave within three seconds, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, brace for impact.
(Whumph! Voyager tumbles backwards.)  

[Q Continuum - Colonial Manor House]  

(In period costume.)
JANEWAY: Q? Where have you taken me?
(She tries the doors and they are locked. Then Q enters dressed as a US Civil War Union Army officer.)
Q: Well, I must admit, your gown is very becoming.
JANEWAY: I don't have time for your little fantasies. Return me to Voyager.
Q: This is no fantasy. You're in the Q Continuum.
JANEWAY: The Continuum?
Q: That's right. I'm simply allowing you to perceive it in the context your human mind can comprehend.
JANEWAY: The last time you brought me here, it looked like some sort of way station on a desert road.
Q: It was awfully drab, wasn't it? But this, this is a much more colourful representation for a human of American descent, don't you think? An elegant manor house, a beautiful Southern belle, a dashing Union officer determined to win her affections despite her hatred for Yankee interlopers.
JANEWAY: Enough. The only thing that interests me right now is the welfare of my ship and crew.
Q: Well, I'm sure your first officer, Chuckles, is it? I'm sure he's got everything under control for the moment.
JANEWAY: I'd like to make sure of that myself, if you don't mind.
Q: This has gone way beyond your ship. It's even gone beyond you and me. This is about the future of the Continuum itself.
JANEWAY: Stop speaking in riddles, and tell me what's going on.
Q: I'll do better than that. I'll show you.
(He opens the shutters on the French windows. Fires burn in the distance, and there is the sound of cannonfire.)
Q: The Continuum is burning. The Q are in the middle of a civil war.
JANEWAY: Start explaining.
Q: Do you remember our friend, Quinn?
JANEWAY: The Q who committed suicide aboard Voyager?
Q: Do you recall what I said might happen if he were allowed to take his own life?
JANEWAY: You said it would represent an interruption to the Continuum. That it could have dire consequences.
Q: I'd say a civil war is pretty dire, wouldn't you?
JANEWAY: His death caused this conflict?
Q: It caused chaos and upheaval. Because even though he was gone, his calls for freedom and individualism continued to echo in the ears of those who believed in his teachings, myself among them. I sounded the trumpet and carried the banner. Naturally, others followed. The forces of the status quo tried to crush us once and for all, but we fought back. And now there's a cosmic struggle for supremacy, and the battle is spreading, causing hazardous repercussions throughout the galaxy.
JANEWAY: Oh! The supernovas.
Q: You might call them galactic cross fire. It's terrible, isn't it? But it's also a wonderful opportunity.
JANEWAY: I fail to see anything wonderful about a war.
Q: War can be an engine of change. War can transform a society for the better. Your own Civil War brought about an end to slavery and oppression.
JANEWAY: But our Civil War came at a time before mankind had learned to resolve disputes without bloodshed. Surely the Q have evolved to a point where you can find a non-violent way to resolve a conflict.
Q: That's where you come in.
JANEWAY: What do I have to do with any of this, Q?
Q: I want you to help me transform the Continuum in the same way your Civil War transformed a nation.
JANEWAY: By mating with you?
Q: I know. It's brilliant, isn't it?
JANEWAY: I don't see how a baby is going to end a war being fought by a race of omnipotent beings.
Q: It's simple. Mating will create a new breed of Q, which will combine my omnipotence and infinite intellect with the best that humanity has to offer.
JANEWAY: You believe human DNA is going to restore peace?
Q: Precisely. What the Continuum needs right now is an infusion of fresh blood, a new sensibility, a new leader, a new messiah. Think of it, Kathy. Our child will be like a precious stone tossed into the cosmic lake, sending endless ripples of human conscience and compassion to wash up on every distant shore of the universe. What greater contribution could a being of your limited power ever hope to make? What is more important to humanity than peace? I'm offering you the opportunity to be the mother of peace.
(Gunshots break the window glass. Q pulls Janeway to safety on the floor.)
Q: Well, what's it going to be? Oh!
JANEWAY: Q! You're bleeding.
(Bullets continue to smash glass as Q stares in disbelief at the red on his hand.)  

[Bridge]  

(Consoles are going bang! The crew pick themselves up from the deck.)
CHAKOTAY: Report.
TUVOK: Shield strength is at twenty percent. Hull damage on decks nine through fourteen. Minor injuries reported on all decks.
PARIS: Warp drive is offline.
KIM: Commander, according to these readings, the shock waves have knocked us sixteen billion kilometres from our previous location.
CHAKOTAY: (to Female Q) I want to know what's going on here. Where's Captain Janeway?
FEMALE Q: Let me go before I hurl this ship and everyone on it into the Therinian Ice Age.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think you can.
FEMALE Q: Don't be ridiculous.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know how or why, but something's affected your powers. Otherwise, you wouldn't still be here and you wouldn't have a bruise on your forehead. Now start talking before I hurl you into the brig.

[Briefing room]  

CHAKOTAY: And it's the war in the Continuum that's causing the supernovas?
TUVOK: May we presume that this conflict is also responsible for the weakening of your powers and your inability to return to the Continuum?
FEMALE Q: The Vulcan talent for stating the obvious never ceases to amaze me.
CHAKOTAY: How were Q and Captain Janeway able to re-enter the Continuum and you weren't?
FEMALE Q: I tried to return, but I was wounded in the process. Oh, don't try to understand it, it's far beyond your limited capacity to comprehend. What's important is, I'm stuck here with you mortals while Q is probably in the process of irreparably harming the Continuum with that woman. Tossed aside for someone five billion years younger. If it weren't so laughable, I'd cry.
CHAKOTAY: Look, we want our Captain back, and you obviously want to get home. Why don't we help each other?
FEMALE Q: How could you possibly help me?
CHAKOTAY: There's got to be some way to get back to the Continuum besides snapping your fingers.
FEMALE Q: Hmm. Well, there's one possibility. But somehow, I don't think this rickety barge or your half-witted crew members are up to the challenge.
TUVOK: May I remind you, madam, that this rickety barge and its half-witted crew are your only hope at the moment.  

[Q Continuum - Colonial Manor House]  

(Q and Janeway are taking shelter behind a settee whilst she tears strips off her petticoats to staunch Q's wound.)
Q: Ow! That hurts.
JANEWAY: Be still. I never thought a Q could be injured.
Q: As I said, this is only a perception of what is happening. I can assure you, those are not mere cannonballs and lead charges being fired at us.
JANEWAY: So they're some sort of Q weapons?
Q: You'd be surprised what innovative munitions can be created by one immortal being who's set his mind on killing another.
COLONEL Q [OC]: Hold your fire. Hold your fire! You're surrounded, Q. Surrender now. We'll be merciful.
JANEWAY: Call a truce. Talk to them. Maybe you can resolve this peacefully.
COLONEL Q [OC]: What's your answer, Q?
(Q draws his revolver and totters over to the windows.)
Q: I'll never surrender! You know that!
(He shoots at the people outside.)
COLONEL Q [OC]: Resume fire. Resume fire!
Q: Get the rifle in the corner and take the other window.
JANEWAY: This is your fight, Q, not mine.
Q: If that's how you feel about it. But if their weapons can make me bleed, what do you think they'll do to you?
(A cannonball lands, knocking Q down.)
JANEWAY: Q! Come on. Come on.
(She helps him out of the room before the chandelier falls.)  

First Officer's log, Stardate 50392.7. While we don't fully understand the astrophysics underlying her plan, the female Q has suggested several modifications which may allow Voyager to enter the Continuum.

[Engineering]  

FEMALE Q: Well?
TORRES: Well what?
FEMALE Q: Are you finished yet?
TORRES: What you've asked us to do requires a complete reconfiguration of the shield array. It takes a while. For us mere morals, that is.
FEMALE Q: Surely there's some way you can speed up the process?
TORRES: If you're in such a hurry, why don't you just snap your fingers and do it yourself? Oh, that's right. You've lost your powers and you need our help.
FEMALE Q: I don't think you understand. It's imperative that I get back to the Continuum before Q mates with your Captain.
TORRES: I understand perfectly. You aren't the first female who's ever had a man run out on her.
FEMALE Q: I hope you're not comparing some failed romance in your pitiful existence to my eternal association with Q.
TORRES: You know, I have really had it with this superiority complex of yours.
FEMALE Q: It's not a complex, dear. It's a fact.
TORRES: Well, here's another fact. If you don't stop pestering me, I'm never going to finish. In which case, your association with Q might not be quite as eternal as you think.
FEMALE Q: you know, I've always liked Klingon females. You've got such spunk.
(Suzie Plaxton also played K'Ehleyr, Worf's wife, in Next Generation, after being a Vulcan doctor.)  

[Q Continuum - Union army camp]  

(Janeway wipes Q's head with a damp cloth. He wakes.)
Q: Where are we?
JANEWAY: One of your faction's encampments.
Q: How?
JANEWAY: I pulled you out of the mansion and managed to hide you from the enemy patrols. Then I spotted some of your people retreating from the battle. From the look of them, I'd say you're not on the winning side.
Q: You saved my life.
JANEWAY: And now it's time to end all this.
Q: I knew you'd come around.
JANEWAY: I've been thinking about what you said, that creating a new Q could bring an era of peace.
Q: Oh, my wild, sweet Kathy. I promise you won't regret it.
JANEWAY: Oh, you're not going to have a child with me. You're going to mate with that charming lady friend of yours that appeared on my ship.
Q: Mate with another Q? Ridiculous.
JANEWAY: It sounded to me like you and she had a very long term relationship.
Q: Yes, but it was never physical. I mean, the Q are way beyond sex. It's never been done.
JANEWAY: Really? Then how exactly did the Q come into existence in the first place?
Q: The Q didn't come into existence. The Q have always existed. Besides, I can only mate with a species capable of copulation, like you.
JANEWAY: But I don't love you, Q.
Q: Yes, but what does that have to do with it?
JANEWAY: Everything. It's the foundation of a family. I could never have a child with someone I didn't love, much less give it up to the Continuum.
Q: Dearest Kathy, I would never dream of having you give it up. I mean, who would raise it? Who would look after it? I'm really not cut out to be a wet nurse.
JANEWAY: Oh, so you're not willing to do the hard work?
Q: I'm an idea man. Hard work isn't my forte.
JANEWAY: I'd change specialties if I were you, because the kind of trouble you're in needs more than a quick fix. You can't just sprinkle a little human DNA into the Continuum and make everything all right.
Q: Why not?
JANEWAY: Those best qualities of humanity you talked about aren't a simple matter of genetics. Love, conscience, compassion.
(She fits him with a sling.)
Q: Ow.
JANEWAY: They're attributes that mankind has developed over centuries. Values that have passed from one generation to the next, taught by parents to their children. Creating a new kind of Q is a noble idea, but it will take more than impregnating someone and walking away. If you want your offspring to embrace your ideals, you're going to have to teach them yourself.
Q: Yes, but that's exactly why I want you here, to nourish and guide the little tyke. Think of the opportunities here in the Continuum. The entire universe would be our child's playground. Together the two of you could explore dimensions you've never even imagined. Fess up. Isn't it even slightly tempting?
JANEWAY: I'd be lying if I said no. What explorer wouldn't be intrigued by the idea of seeking out whole new dimensions. But I have other responsibilities, and I won't just abandon them.
Q: Ah, yes. The crew of the intrepid starship Voyager. Perhaps you'd be interested in sending them home.
JANEWAY: You've tempted me with that prospect before. But frankly, your credibility is more than a little suspect. My crew and I will get home. We're committed to that. But we're going to do it through hard work and determination. We are not looking for a quick fix.
Q: Even if I wanted to mate, I wouldn't know how. It's totally unprecedented.
JANEWAY: You'll figure something out. You are omnipotent, after all.
Q: I need time to think about it.
JANEWAY: Time's up, Q. You've got to stop this war before it destroys the Continuum. Now I'm taking this white flag, and I'm going over to the enemy camp, and I'm going to tell them you're ready to talk about terms for a ceasefire.
Q: Kathy, don't be a hero.
JANEWAY: I'm going, Q. So if I were you, I'd start working on a way to set that precedent.  

First Officer's log, supplemental. We've laid in a course for the point in space where the female Q says we can enter the Continuum and find the Captain.

[Bridge]  

(The female Q is in the Captain's chair.)
FEMALE Q: You, helm boy. Adjust course to heading two three five mark zero eight. Increase speed to maximum impulse.
PARIS: Sir?
KIM: Er, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: What is it, Harry?
KIM: She's put us on a direct course for another star about to go supernova.
FEMALE Q: You did say you wanted to get into the Continuum?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but in one piece.
FEMALE Q: Try to wrap your minuscule mind around this. These supernovas are actually caused by spatial disruptions within the Continuum, the result of the war. Now, each time a star implodes, a negative density false vacuum is created which actually sucks the surrounding matter into the Continuum.
CHAKOTAY: So Voyager will be pulled in too.
FEMALE Q: If we time it perfectly. Otherwise, the subsequent explosion will blow you all into microfragments.
TUVOK: Commander, I needn't remind you that close proximity to a supernova will crush us, whether or not we time it perfectly.
FEMALE Q: You're so negative.
CHAKOTAY: He does have a point.
FEMALE Q: Humanoids. Q to Engineering.  

[Engineering]  

TORRES: Go ahead, Q.
Female Q [OC]: Take warp drive offline.  

[Bridge]  

FEMALE Q: Then remodulate the shields to emit a beta-tachyon pulse and prepare to emit a series of focused antiproton beams to the shield bubble.
CHAKOTAY: Does this make any sense to you at all, B'Elanna?  

[Engineering]  

TORRES: I'd be lying if I said I understood it completely, but if she's thinking what I think she's thinking, we should increase power to the shields by a factor of ten!

[Bridge]  

TORRES [OC]: That's assuming, of course, that the shield bubble doesn't ignite and burn us all to a crisp.
PARIS: We'll be reaching the imploding star in thirteen seconds. I still have time to change course.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain your course. B'Elanna, take warp drive offline, remodulate the shields, and get ready to emit the antiprotons.

[Engineering]  

TORRES: Acknowledged.  

[Bridge]  

PARIS: Entering the star's corona in three seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Antiprotons now, B'Elanna.  

[Q Continuum - Confederate Colonel's tent]  

COLONEL Q: Ah, Captain Janeway, I presume. (to guard) You're dismissed. I'm sorry to have kept you waiting, madam, but, please sit down. I understand you walked into our camp alone and unarmed?
JANEWAY: That's right.
COLONEL Q: The Continuum's a dangerous place for all of us right now, not to mention a solitary human female. I admire your bravery.
JANEWAY: I've come with an offer of truce from Q.
COLONEL Q: I'm afraid the time for diplomacy has passed, madam. If we don't end this war quickly, the damage to subspace will be irreversible.
JANEWAY: Then you agree the fighting has to stop.
COLONEL Q: Most certainly. That's why we intend to bring this war to a conclusion by the most expedient means possible.
JANEWAY: I'm relieved to hear you say that. May I ask how?
COLONEL Q: Quite simple, really. Since Q is the ringleader of this so-called freedom faction, we shall have to execute him.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, sir, there are no chapters in the history of my own people more tragic than wars which set neighbour against neighbour. Q has an idea for a non-violent way to bring this conflict to an end. I urge you to listen to what he has to say.
COLONEL Q: We are already resolved, madam. I'd be greatly in your debt if you'd tell me where we can find him.
JANEWAY: I won't do that.
COLONEL Q: No, I didn't think you would.
GUARD: Excuse me, sir.
COLONEL Q: Fortunately, we won't be needing your assistance.
JANEWAY: I told you, he's willing to negotiate. Let him go.
Q: She's right. I've had a change of heart.
COLONEL Q: Grovel all you want, Q. I've been waiting for this moment for an eternity. Put them both in chains.
JANEWAY: Wait! What are you charging me with?
COLONEL Q: Collaborating with the enemy, which in the Continuum is a crime punishable by death.  

[Q Continuum - Confederate camp]  

(Morning.)
PRIVATE: Captain.
CAPTAIN: Private.
(Q and Janeway are lead out.)
JANEWAY: Why won't you listen to me? I told your Commander last night we can resolve the situation peacefully.
Q: If it's any consolation, there are those in the Continuum who will remember us as martyrs.
JANEWAY: I'd rather skip that particular honour.
(They are tied to stakes.)
Q: Still, you have to admit, there's something romantic about going to our deaths together.
COLONEL Q: Do you have any last words?
JANEWAY: I won't plead for my own life. From your perspective I know it seems insignificant. But what is not insignificant is the fact that the Q, as an omnipotent race, have an opportunity to be a positive force to set a higher standard for other beings in the galaxy. I implore you all, don't go through with this. Don't allow yourselves to continue using violence to resolve your differences.
COLONEL Q: Q, do you have anything to add?
Q: Today I sacrifice my existence for the principles of freedom and individuality that I have fought for so long. But this woman is innocent. What's more, she saved my life, and she tried to save us from each other. Kill me if you must, but let her go.
COLONEL Q: A very touching speech, Q. But as usual, your rhetoric fails to compensate for your irresponsibility.
(A drum roll, and the firing squad line up.)
COLONEL Q: Ready! Aim!
Q: I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I know.
COLONEL Q: Fire!
(Gunfire. Q tenses.)
Q: I'm hit! I'm dying! Oh!
(Janeway looks down at herself, then sees the squad taking up defensive positions.)
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: What?
JANEWAY: They're not firing at us.
Q: They're not?
(There are familiar faces amongst the boys in blue.)
CHAKOTAY: Harry, get to the Captain!
(The female Q, in crinolines, goes too.)
KIM: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: I'm fine.
Q: (to Female Q) Oh, darling, I knew you'd come for me. Aren't you going to untie me?
FEMALE Q: How do I know you wouldn't run off with the next bipedal female that catches your eye?
Q: Well, it just so happens I have a proposal which will reassure you of my devotion.
(Kim and Janeway move away. Sergeant Paris has made his way around the rear of the Confederates.)
PARIS: (to Colonel Q) Put down the gun.
(The female Q unties Q.)
Q: Think of it, Q. We'd be visionaries, innovators, the parents of peace.
FEMALE Q: Oh, that does have a ring to it.
PARIS: Captain, what should I do with him?
FEMALE Q: Q and I have a plan to end the war. Call off your troops.
JANEWAY: Do as she says and I'll call my people off.
FEMALE Q: They may be humanoids, but they're using our weapons.
COLONEL Q: Cease fire! Cease fire!
JANEWAY: Tell our people to stop shooting.
PARIS: Hold your fire!
KIM: Put down your weapons!
Q: So, darling, have you given any thought as to how we might accomplish this historic act of procreation?
FEMALE Q: I've thought of nothing else since you suggested it.
Q: Oh!
FEMALE Q: As a matter of fact, I
(Whisper, whisper.)
Q: Oh. Oh. Oh! I love it when you talk dirty.
JANEWAY: Why don't I give you two some privacy?
Q: Oh, Kathy, don't you like to watch?
(The two Qs touch right forefingers, which glow briefly.)
Q: Oh! I was good, wasn't I?
FEMALE Q: Very good.
JANEWAY: That was it?
Q: You had your chance. Don't go crying about it now.
(Snaps fingers.)  

[Bridge]  

JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris, what's our position?
PARIS: We're back on our original course.
TUVOK: All crew are present and accounted for.
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim, any sign of supernovas?
KIM: No, ma'am. Nothing but calm space ahead. Looks like the war is over.
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, run a series of standard diagnostics. If everything checks out, take us to warp six.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll be in my ready room.  

[Ready room]  

Q: Yabba dabba doo.
(Q is dandling a toddler in uniform on his knee.)
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: He's got my cheekbones, don't you think?
JANEWAY: He's adorable. I'd say fatherhood agrees with you.
Q: Well, I'll admit, I look at the universe in an entirely different way now. I mean, I can't go around causing temporal anomalies or subspace inversions without considering the impact it'll have on my son.
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear you intend to set a good example.
Q: By the way, did I tell you how smart he is? I've already taught him how to knock small planets out of orbit.
JANEWAY: And I thought you were going to teach him about love and conscience.
Q: Oh, that's why we want Auntie Kathy to be the godmother now, don't we?
JANEWAY: I'm honoured.
Q: Yeah, well, wait until we ask you to baby-sit. Can't leave the little guy alone for a nanosecond. Well, it's time to be going. The old ball and chain really hates it when we're late. (to Baby Q) Say bye bye. Bye bye.


S3 E12
Macrocosm
Stardate: 50425.1
Original Airdate: December 11, 1996

[Tak Tak homeworld]
(The Tak Tak are deeply into body language. Words are augmented by formal poses and hand gestures.)
CONSUL: Good health, strong body, clear mind.
NEELIX: And you, your hospitality, your generosity, your patience, many thanks. My colleague's behaviour, our apologies.
JANEWAY: Consul, I assure you I meant no
(Her hand movements are clearly offensive to the Tak Tak.)
CONSUL: Please make her quiet.
NEELIX: Captain, please.
JANEWAY: I understand.
NEELIX: Good health, strong body, clear mind.
CONSUL: And you. Your journey home short and safe.

Captain's log, stardate 50425.1. Mister Neelix and I have completed our three day trade mission with the Tak Tak, one of the more unusual species we've encountered in the Delta Quadrant. We are en route back to Voyager.

[Shuttlecraft]

JANEWAY: Oh. I've always been taught to be tolerant of other cultures and points of view, no matter how alien, but I have to say that the Tak Tak are the most unforgiving people I've ever met.
NEELIX: They are a little impatient.
JANEWAY: They make the Klingons look sedate. I may never put my hands on my hips again.
NEELIX: You had no way of knowing you were making one of the worst insults possible.
JANEWAY: Obviously they've never heard of forgive and forget. It's a good thing you were there, Mister Neelix. I might have been shot at dawn. I have studied chromolinguistics, American Sign Language, the gestural idioms of the Leyron, but I just couldn't get the hang of the Tak Tak.
NEELIX: It seemed like more than just a language to me, Captain. A lot of their gestures, from what I could tell, were ritualistic. You might even say superstitious.
JANEWAY: You have a genuine flair for diplomacy, Mister Neelix. I may have to promote you from morale officer to Ambassador. With all the species we're bound to meet, I could use a man like you at the front door.
NEELIX: Ambassador Neelix. I like the sound of that. We're approaching the rendezvous coordinates.
JANEWAY: Dropping to one quarter impulse. Voyager's not there, and they're not responding to hails. I'm running a long range scan. There they are. They're holding position in sector thirty eight, coordinates one two one mark six.
NEELIX: That's over a light year away from here.
JANEWAY: The ship appears to be adrift. They could be in trouble. Engaging maximum warp.
(They reach Voyager.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. Commander Chakotay, respond.
NEELIX: The ship looks perfectly fine. There's no sign of any external damage. Any sign of the crew?
JANEWAY: There's some kind of bioelectrical interference. I can't get clear life sign readings. The escape pods are all in place, and there's no indication of any recent transporter activity. Grab a phaser, Ambassador. We're going to get some answers.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Still no sign of the crew, but these sensor readings are highly erratic. A bioelectric field is permeating the ship.
NEELIX: Where's it coming from?
JANEWAY: I can't localise it. Let's try accessing the ships internal sensors, see if we can get a better reading.
(She accesses a wall panel.)
JANEWAY: Same problem. The main computer is offline, so is the comm. system. This is strange. One of the bio-neural gel packs in the mess hall ruptured, but most of the systems in there seem to be functioning normally. Let's get to the bridge.
(Further along the corridor they come across a tool box and PADD.)
JANEWAY: Someone was doing maintenance work on this power relay. All the equipment is still active, but the work hasn't been completed.
NEELIX: It's almost as if they dropped what they were doing and ran.
JANEWAY: Come on.
NEELIX: This isn't the welcome home I was expecting.
JANEWAY: Me neither, but if there was an attack of some kind, why didn't Chakotay try to contact us or send out a warning buoy? I'm picking up a comm. signal about ten metres ahead. It's coming from inside this room.
NEELIX: This is Ensign Wildman's quarters. Is she in there?
JANEWAY: I can't tell. Let's take a look. Stand ready.

[Wildman's quarters]

JANEWAY: Here's our comm. signal, your Good Morning Voyager programme.
NEELIX: Ensign Wildman is one of my most dedicated viewers. According to the time index she activated this programme approximately eleven hours ago.
JANEWAY: Why is it still running?
NEELIX: The programme is set for automatic playback until it's turned off. (he turns it off.) The baby's missing too.
JANEWAY: According to the protein decay, I'd say Ensign Wildman replicated this eleven hours go. When we get to the bridge we'll check the communications logs. They might tell us whether or not
(They hear a buzzing insect sound.)

[Corridor]

NEELIX: There!
(A shadow vanishes down a side corridor.)
JANEWAY: I can't tell if it's humanoid, but it's emanating a bioelectric field.
NEELIX: Whatever it is, it just ran into a dead end.
(Crash, rattle.)

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Over here.
(There is a hole in one of the transporter pads.)
JANEWAY: Something just punched right through this floor panel into the Jefferies tubes.
NEELIX: What is it?
JANEWAY: Some sort of mucilaginous compound. High concentrations of amino acids and proteins, and fragments of non-humanoid DNA. Well, Ambassador, I'd say we've got an unexpected guest.
NEELIX: Somehow I don't think he's the diplomatic type.
JANEWAY: Main power is failing, and the environmental controls are going offline. Systems are starting to shut down one by one. We'd better get to the bridge.

[Turbolift]

JANEWAY: Good, we're still got auxiliary power. Deck one.
NEELIX: It's getting awfully hot in here.
JANEWAY: When environmental controls fail, heat from the warp plasma conduits can't be vented. Expect a heat wave before long.
NEELIX: No problem, I'm used to it. I grew up near the Rinax marshlands. Our summers were the hottest in the sector. Fifty degrees Celsius, ninety percent humidity, and the most vicious lavaflies you've ever seen.
JANEWAY: Summers in Indiana were pretty similar when I was growing up.
NEELIX: Except that we had three suns and the lavaflies grew to be six centimetres long.
JANEWAY: Six centimetres?
NEELIX: Insect repellant was a booming business.
(Something thumps the turbocar and it stops. There is lots of buzzing outside.)
JANEWAY: There's a life form in the turboshaft. I'm engaging the manual override.
NEELIX: Ah, Captain, it sounds like our guest has bought a few friends.
JANEWAY: One more second. I can't get the pneumatic conduits to
(Something punches through the door and squirts gung onto Neelix. Janeway phasers the long tentacle that follows it.)
NEELIX: That was no lavafly.
JANEWAY: There's no lifeform in the tube above us. We're getting out of here.

[Jefferies tube]

JANEWAY: Are you all right?
NEELIX: Yes. Disgusting, but I'm all right.
JANEWAY: It's the same mucilaginous compound we saw in the transporter room. Come on.
(They crawl along a short tube to a junction. Janeway uses her tricorder again.)
NEELIX: What is it?
JANEWAY: Human lifesigns, very faint. Thirty or more.
NEELIX: Where are they coming from?
JANEWAY: Several decks above us. I can't pinpoint the location.
NEELIX: Maybe the crew is hiding from the aliens and they set up a defence perimeter.
JANEWAY: Maybe. One thing's for sure, whoever's up there is still alive. Once we get the main computer online, we'll be able to get a fix on their location.
(They crawl to another junction.)
NEELIX: It's so hot. My head is spinning.
JANEWAY: You've got a high fever, fluid in your lungs.
NEELIX: Lung.
JANEWAY: That alien compound is acting quickly. Try to hang on. Just three more decks.
NEELIX: Aye, aye, Captain.
(Neelix has a dizzy spell.)
NEELIX: Captain, go on without me.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to leave you here, Neelix.
NEELIX: I can't. I'm so dizzy.
JANEWAY: There should be an emergency medical kit up that tube. I'll bring back something to get you on your feet. Don't go away.
(She goes up the ladder and find the medical kit. Meanwhile, Neelix is joined by a buzzing noise.)
NEELIX [OC]: Help! Captain!
JANEWAY: I'm coming, Neelix!
(She heads back down with a hypo in her hand. Neelix screams.)
JANEWAY: Neelix!
(Neelix has gone. A trail of mucus leads back down the Jefferies tube.
(Janeway goes to Engineering, but it is deserted. She can hear a noise somewhere and climbs the ladder to the upper level around the warp core. A large case is there, and it contains weaponry. She strips down to her vest, keeping her comm. badge, and fills a backpack with small metal items. Finally she takes a hand phaser, a knife, and a phaser rifle. Rambo or Ripley Janeway locks and loads, ready for bear.)

[Bridge]

(Janeway has to force the turbolift doors to open properly. There is no one on the bridge, but there is mucus on the walls. As she works at a wall panel in an auxiliary Science station alcove, something buzzing rises up from behind the helm. The monitor says Distress Signal Protocol ready to encode.)
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager to anyone within range. My ship has been seized by unknown lifeforms. Require any and all assistance.
(Transmitting on all subspace channels. Something bites her on the left arm. She squashes it. The monitor says it is scanning for lifeforms on all decks. Janeway runs a medical device over the bite, then the computer reports Lifesigns Located. Some are near the stern of the vessel, and some below the bridge.)

[Mess hall]

(The mess hall is full of unconscious people, mostly at tables. They have mucus on their skin, along with nasty boils.) 
JANEWAY: Harry. Harry.
(Kim wheezes for breath.)
JANEWAY: Oh, Chakotay.
(Tiny insects fly out of the boil on his neck, then a massive three tentacled thing flies at Janeway, throwing her over a table. It prepares to dive at her with its central injector ready, and she blasts it into pieces. Clutching her side, she runs out into the corridor and into a turbolift.)

[Sickbay]

(Janeway tries to use a magnetic clamp to open the doors, and a hand puts a phaser at her throat.)
EMH: Captain! Needless to say, I thought you were something else. It won't be long before the other aliens sense you here and start to try to invade sickbay. We don't have much time to treat you.
JANEWAY: Doctor, what's going on? What are those ow!
EMH: You've ruptured your dorsal extensor muscle and bruised two ribs. I'm going to have to perform minor surgery. Lie on your side and try to remain perfectly still.
JANEWAY: Tell me what's happened.
EMH: Voyager has been infected by a macrovirus.
JANEWAY: A macrovirus?
EMH: A form of life I've never encountered, or even imagined.
JANEWAY: What about the crew?
EMH: Captain, I promise I will tell you exactly what happened if you just lie still. Shortly after you'd left for the Tak Tak homeworld, we received a distress call from a nearby mining colony. A race called the Garans.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]

EMH [OC]: They were experiencing what appeared to be a minor viral outbreak,
GARAN MINER [on monitor]: Fever, disorientation. I think it's some kind of virus. Nothing serious, but if we don't stop it now, we'll be forced to shut down the operation.
CHAKOTAY: We may be able to help you. Doctor?
EMH: A synthetic antigen may do the trick. However, it will have to be modified for this specific virus. I'd like to beam down to the mining colony and examine a few of the infected.
CHAKOTAY: An away mission.
EMH: I'm the only member of this crew who can successfully enter a contaminated environment without risk. Besides, I've been looking forward to spreading my wings.
CHAKOTAY: Good enough. It'll take us about three hours to reach you.
GARAN MINER [on monitor]: Thank you, Commander. I don't think we'll be going anywhere.
EMH: Prepare to download my programme into the autonomous emitter.
KES: Yes, Doctor.

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

TUVOK: They're not responding to our hails.
CHAKOTAY: Life signs?
KIM: There's a lot of bioelectrical interference. I can't get a clear reading.
EMH: Perhaps their condition is more serious than they thought. I'd better get down there.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, don't forget, you're not invulnerable. If anything happens to that portable emitter, your programme could be lost.
EMH: Don't worry Commander, I've been studying the Starfleet guidelines for away team members. For this particular scenario, medical emergency on alien terrain, it is recommended that we keep an open comm. channel at all times.
CHAKOTAY: You heard the man.
TUVOK: Channel open.

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]

EMH: Away team to Voyager. Transport was successful and my portable emitter is working perfectly. I am scanning the mine shaft and proceeding on vector one four seven. Ambient temperature is sixteen degrees Celsius. Cavern illumination is minimal but doesn't pose a problem for my optical sensors. The cave walls are comprised of granite with a mixture of pyroclastic infusions
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Doctor

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your attention to detail but we don't need that much information. Let us know when you've found the miners.

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]

EMH: Oh, very well. Stand by then. Voyager, I've found one of the miners. He appears to be suffering from the advanced stages of severe viral infection.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Can you treat him?
EMH: Not without a more specialised immunising agent. This is curious. The virus has begun to concentrate in a region near his neck, and it's using his glandular tissue to create some sort of orifice. Something is emerging. A lifeform! Commander, I think I've just discovered a completely new form of life. From what I can tell, it appears to be a macroscopic version of the virus.
CHAKOTAY: You mean the virus has grown?
EMH: Yes, by a factor of billions. The virus absorbed the miner's growth hormones into it's protein structure, and used them to increase it's own mass and dimensions. In essence, the virus has found a way to leave the microscopic world and enter the macroscopic world. Our world. It's a remarkable evolutionary development. The virus appears to be attracted to infra-red radiation. It's mistaking my holomatrix for body heat. At the moment, this one's approximately point five millimetres in diameter, but it's continuing to grow at a rate of thirty microns every second! Commander, permission to beam the virus aboard for further analysis.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: No.

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The virus isn't in our database. The biofilters might not recognise it. You'll have to settle for tricorder data.

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]

EMH: Very well, but I think I should. Stand by, Voyager. Hold on. Stop.
GARAN MINER: You, you've got to help us.
EMH: I intend to, but first I must return to my ship and prepare an antidote.
GARAN MINER: Take me with you.
EMH: I'm afraid that's not possible. We'd risk infecting the crew.
GARAN MINER: You can't leave me. Please.
EMH: Commander Chakotay. Perhaps if we established a force field around sickbay and beamed victims directly to
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'm sorry, but I'm afraid we can't take the chance.
EMH: But these people need

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Doctor, away team guidelines specifically forbid the transport of unknown infectious
EMH [OC]: Of unknown infection agents onto a starship without establishing

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]

EMH: Containment and eradication protocols. I understand. I'll do my best to help you. Away team to Voyager. One to beam up.

[EMH narrative - Transporter Room]

EMH: Doctor to Bridge. Checking the biofilters. It appears several viral organisms were beamed up as well. The biofilter

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

EMH [OC]: Has isolated them.
CHAKOTAY: Purge the filters.
EMH [OC]: Aye, sir.

[EMH narrative - Transporter Room]

EMH: Purging is complete. I'll be in sickbay.
EMH [OC]: What I didn't realise was that in the few seconds it took me to purge the filters, some of the virus had already migrated into the transporter buffer.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
EMH: I'm creating a synthetic antigen that will inhibit the viruses ability to replicate, but I haven't quite figured out how to restore the infected cells to their original condition. As for the larger versions of the viruses, what I've the macrovirus, I would suggest a fly swatter.
CHAKOTAY: How long before the antigen's ready?
EMH: I'd say another twelve hours.
CHAKOTAY: That gives us time to rendezvous with the Captain. We'll deal with this after she's aboard.
EMH: Commander. I'd like to apologise for my over-zealous behaviour on the away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Compassion is nothing to be sorry about, Doctor. It won't be the last time you're faced with a moral dilemma in the field. But if it makes you feel any better, your performance was exemplary.
EMH: Thank you.
(Chakotay leaves.)
KES: I told you he'd understand.
EMH: Yes, you did.
EMH [OC]: We continued working on the antigen. Unfortunately the macrovirus was working faster. It had already moved from the transporter buffer into an adjacent system.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]

PARIS: B'Elanna, thank God you're here. The natives are getting restless.
TORRES: What's the emergency?
PARIS: I volunteered to help out while Neelix is away on the trade mission. The heating array overloaded, it incinerated a twelve kilo pot roast and all the food replicators went offline.
TORRES: Mmm, looks delicious. Maybe there's a problem with the bioneural gel pack in the replicator panel.
PARIS: Actually, I'm a pretty good cook when Engineering's doing it's job.
TORRES: Oh, so this is my fault?
PARIS: Well the gel packs are your department, aren't they? Besides, what was I supposed to tell all these hungry, irritable people?
TORRES: You know, I think that there's a plasma relay on deck seven that really needs repair.
PARIS: Oh, no. You can't leave me now, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Oh, you need me. I'm touched. What's going on here? Looks like this gel pack has an infection. Half the neurodes have been burned out and the pack is filled with some kind of mucilaginous compound. Tom, call the Doctor and tell him
(Torres reaches for the gel pack. It explodes, covering her hand with mucus.) 
PARIS: B'Elanna!

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Were any other gel packs infected?
EMH: No, just the one in the mess hall. The ship is healthy. It's the crew we have to worry about. Your bones have healed, but the surrounding tissue will be sensitive for a few days.
JANEWAY: It's getting warmer in here, isn't it.
EMH: I'm afraid it's not just the ship, Captain, it's also you. You've been infected with the macrovirus. You're experiencing a high fever.
JANEWAY: Yes, on the bridge, I was bitten by one of them.
EMH: Your glandular system is already being affected. If I don't treat you now you'll end up like the rest of the crew. I've spent the past few hours perfecting the antigen, but I haven't tested it on a live subject yet.
JANEWAY: Looks like I'll have to be your guinea-pig, Doctor. The crew, why are they all in the mess hall and the cargo bays?
EMH: I believe the larger macroviruses are driven by some sort of instinct to assemble their host population.
JANEWAY: Tell me what happened after B'Elanna was exposed to the infected gel pack.
EMH: I was faced with an imminent epidemic.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]

EMH: Oh, no. Doctor to the Bridge. The macrovirus is on board Voyager and appears to be airborne. I suggest a level four quarantine of the mess hall

[EMH narrative - Bridge]

EMH [OC]: and all adjoining sections.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Red Alert. Initiate level four quarantine protocols on deck two.
TUVOK: Aye sir.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, this is Commander Chakotay. We've detected an airborne virus in the mess hall. Deck two is under quarantine. No crewmember, repeat, no crewmember is to enter or leave any section on deck two. Stand by for further instructions.
TUVOK: I've erected the biocontainment fields. The area has been sealed.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]

EMH [OC]: We managed to avoid a ship-wide outbreak, but every crew member on deck two had been contaminated. I collected a single live specimen of the macrovirus and returned to sickbay in hopes of finding a cure.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]

KES: Ready, Doctor.
EMH: Optimal magnification.
KES: The specimen has synthesised B'Elanna's growth hormone into its own structure.
EMH: Excellent! That should give us the information we need to destroy the virus without killing its host cells.
KES: The virus has grown by one hundred and fifty microns.
EMH: It's rate of growth shouldn't hinder our analysis, as long as it's genetic structure stays the same.
(The virus is no longer visible in the microscope.)
KES: Doctor!
EMH: Computer, erect a level three forcefield around the microscope station.
(The forcefield flickers as the virus bounces off it.)

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]

PARIS: Well, so much for lunch.
TORRES: I may never look at food again.
PARIS: I thought Klingons didn't get nauseated. You have a redundant stomach.
TORRES: Well, right now, they're both unhappy. Oh.
(Torres passes out.)
PARIS: Paris to sickbay.
EMH [OC]: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I just saw two macroviruses come out of B'Elanna's neck.
EMH [OC]: Stand by, Mister Paris.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]

EMH: We're close to formulating an antigen.
(The virus is now very visible.)
KES: The virus has grown to point three metres.
EMH: On the microscopic level, the virus uses that needle-like projection to penetrate a cell membrane. On our level, it probably impales it's victim in much the same way, infusing him with it's own genetic code. The antigen is ready. Kes? Computer, deactivate force field.
(Kes stands back. The virus heads for the EMH. He grabs it and injects it. It falls to the deck and deflates.)
EMH: Well. One down, ten billion to go.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]

EMH [OC]: Eager to inoculate those already infected, I quickly headed for the quarantined area. Though their condition had grown worse, it was the least of our problems.
EMH: (to Torres) Lieutenant, if you can hear me, I'm going to give you an injection. It should eliminate the virus.
(Paris can hear the buzzing.)
PARIS: What, what is that?
EMH: You don't want to know.
(Two macroviruses pin the EMH onto the deck and nearly stab his mobile emitter. He manages to roll away under the tables.)
EMH: Doctor to the Bridge. Intruder alert on deck two section thirteen.
EMH [OC]: Within minutes, dozens of the larger organisms forced their way beyond deck two and overwhelmed the ship.

[Sickbay]

EMH: It wasn't long before the crew was incapacitated. Although I've developed an effective vaccine, I can't administer it. Every time I try to get to the crew, I'm attacked. Perhaps with your help?
JANEWAY: How many of the larger macroviruses are there?
EMH: I have no way of knowing. Dozens, perhaps hundreds. They're replicating at an exponential rate. By this time tomorrow there could be thousands.
(Buzzing and thumping at the door.)
JANEWAY: Speak of the devil.
EMH: You're cured.
JANEWAY: The question is, how do we cure the rest of the crew? This antigen. Can it be distributed in a gaseous form?
EMH: For absorption by the respiratory system? I've already considered dispensing it through Environmental controls, but they're offline and I have limited engineering expertise.
JANEWAY: Leave that to me. All we have to do is get to Environmental Control on deck twelve.
EMH: Easier said than done. We'll run into the same problem I face when I try to get to the Mess hall.
JANEWAY: Not if I can help it. Prepare two canisters of antigen. We'll split up and take two different routes to Environmental Control. It'll double our chances. If you get there first, call me and I'll talk you through the repairs.
EMH: The macroviruses are attracted to infra-red radiation. Set your tricorder to emit a thermal scattering signal. It will make it more difficult to target you. Ready when you are.
JANEWAY: We'll be right with you.

[Jefferies tube]

JANEWAY: Take Jefferies tube eleven. What's wrong?
EMH: I've been studying the ship's infrastructure, and I'm familiar with most of it, but, how do I get there from here?
JANEWAY: Jefferies tube eleven. Take a left at Section 31 and straight down past the tractor beam emitter until you hit deck ten. Get out at section three and follow the corridor all the way around until
EMH: Until I hit the shuttlebay. Then I crawl through access port nine, go past three airlocks and then two decks down. Environmental Control's at the end of the hall. Now I remember. Who designed this ship anyway?
JANEWAY: Good luck.

[Corridor]

(Janeway splats three macroviruses.)
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: I won't be joining you as soon as I'd hoped.

[Shuttlecraft]

EMH: The macroviruses overwhelmed me on deck ten and my portable emitter was nearly destroyed. I've taken refuge inside the shuttlebay, in a shuttlecraft.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Stay put, Doctor. I'm close to Environmental Control.

[Environmental Control]

JANEWAY: Janeway to Doctor. I've got the Environmental Controls back online.
EMH [OC]: Set the dispersal nodes to one part per thousand.
(Whumph!)

[Shuttlecraft]

EMH: What's going on?
JANEWAY [OC]: I'm not sure

[Environmental Control]

JANEWAY: But I think someone's firing at Voyager. Doctor, use the shuttle's sensors to find out what's happening and patch the data to me.
EMH [OC]: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: It's the Tak Tak. Doctor, open a channel and hail their Captain.
EMH [OC]: Stand by.
JANEWAY: Consul, this is Captain Janeway. Why are you firing at us?
CONSUL [on monitor]: The Garan Mining Colony infected. We purified them. Your distress call received. Voyager infected. We are purifying you.
JANEWAY: Purifying? You're trying to destroy us.
CONSUL [on monitor]: No choice. No cure for the virus. Voyager's existence a threat. Your illness, our apologies.
JANEWAY: Wait. We've developed a cure but your torpedoes just stopped us getting it to our crew and putting an end to this.
CONSUL [on monitor]: A cure?
JANEWAY: Yes. A synthetic antigen. We've tested it and it works. I can prove it to you, and I'd be willing to share the antigen with your people, but first you've got to stop attacking my ship. Give me a chance to save my crew.
CONSUL [on monitor]: A chance. One hour.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Doctor, we've got a problem. That last torpedo destroyed the secondary power couplings. I can't

[Shuttlecraft]

JANEWAY [OC]: Get the Environmental Controls back online.
EMH: We appear to be low on options.

[Environmental Control]

JANEWAY: The only systems we still have access to are the ones with independent power sources. Shuttlecraft, life support, the holodecks. Doctor, you said the macroviruses are attracted to infra-red signatures.
EMH [OC]: That's right.
JANEWAY: Right now you and I are the only targets left on board. What if we gave them something new to sink their teeth into?

[Shuttlecraft]

EMH: What are you suggesting?
(The Paxau resort programme is activated and the macroviruses are let into the holodeck.)

[Environmental Control]

JANEWAY: Doctor, it seems to be working. I've programmed the holo-characters to react to the viruses. We don't have much time. Grab your hypospray and get to the crew. You've got a clear path to the Mess hall and both cargo bays.
EMH [OC]: Acknowledged. What about you, Captain?
JANEWAY: I've put together what you might call an antigen bomb. Now all I have to do is drop it.

(Janeway walks along a corridor to the open Holodeck doors. She sets the bomb timer for forty seconds but as she steps into the doorway to throw it, a macrovirus knocks her down and she drops both the bomb and her rifle. It lunges at her, and there is a struggle, until she rolls away and it bends its injector on the deck. She uses her knife to cut off one of its tentacles, then stabs it. With less than seven seconds left. she throws the bombs into the holodeck and runs away. There is an explosion of green gas.)

[Shuttlecraft]

EMH: Doctor to Captain Janeway. Captain, please respond.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: It worked. The macroviruses have been destroyed.
JANEWAY: And the ship?

[Shuttlecraft]

EMH: There was heavy damage suffered on Holodeck two, but there are no hull breaches in evidence.

[Environmental Control]

CONSUL [on monitor]: Astonishment. Your vessel, purified.
JANEWAY: And we'd be willing to share the cure with you, if you'd be kind enough to forego destroying our ship.
CONSUL [on monitor]: Of course, of course. Purification will cease. My word. Many thanks to Captain of Voyager. Good health.
(Transmission ends, and Janeway relaxes.)
JANEWAY: Good health.

[Ready room]

(Janeway is painting a pastoral scene whilst drinking a cup of tea and listening to jazz.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Good morning, Captain. Here's an update on repairs.
JANEWAY: How's the crew holding up?
CHAKOTAY: They're fine, although the Doctor tells me a few people are still reporting post-viral queasiness.
JANEWAY: I'm not surprised. Inform the crew that I'm granting extended R&R for all personnel, and work out the shift rotations.
CHAKOTAY: Aye Captain. Speaking of R&R, a few of us are going skiing on the holodeck. The Ktarian glaciers. Fresh air, good work out. Care to join us?
JANEWAY: No, thank you, but have fun.
CHAKOTAY: Not your cup of tea?
JANEWAY: Oh, on the contrary, I love to ski. Let's just say I've had enough of a workout for the time being.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.


S3 E13
Fair Trade
Stardate: 50437.8
Original Airdate: January 8, 1997

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Mister Tuvok! Mister Tuvok! I was supposed to accompany you on security rounds this morning. Did you forget?
TUVOK: I was not aware that we had a definite appointment.
NEELIX: I'm sure it was definite. Well, maybe not completely definite. That is, I, I'd expressed my desire to learn the ropes as it were, and I have completed my study of starship security protocols. I think you'll find that I'm fully qualified to serve in the capacity of a Starfleet security officer. Junior grade, of course.
TUVOK: If you recall, Mister Neelix, I did not guarantee you a position.
NEELIX: But Captain Janeway is always saying that Voyager is a ship of opportunity.
TUVOK: That is true, but opportunities for promotion on a starship must be earned.
NEELIX: I've been working hard at this. I really do feel I have a great deal to contribute to Voyager beyond my current role.
TUVOK: Your dedication is duly noted, Mister Neelix. Now if you'll excuse me, I am due on the bridge.
NEELIX: I'll see you first thing tomorrow morning for security rounds!

[Engineering]

TORRES: Ensign Vorik. Get me a duotronic probe, I'm having trouble regulating the plasma flow.
(Vorik is a Vulcan.)
VORIK: May I suggest a gravitic caliper instead? You might find it a more precise instrument.
TORRES: Good idea, but bring me both.
NEELIX: Good morning, B'Elanna. You missed my special Klingon Breakfast Buffet.
TORRES: I'm sorry Neelix, but a bowl of cold gagh is not my idea of how to start a morning.
NEELIX: Well, you're not alone. None of the crew seemed especially enthusiastic about it. What's the problem with er, the plasma injectors? I've been getting myself up to speed on Federation warp propulsion.
TORRES: The plasma flow in the manifold seems to be constricted.
NEELIX: Ah. Have you thought of phase locking them to the dilithium matrix?
TORRES: That was the first thing I did.
NEELIX: Oh. I really am interested in learning more about engineering systems, maybe even volunteering for a few duty shifts. In fact, I have a couple of questions about the impulse response filters.
TORRES: Neelix, Neelix, this really isn't a good time.
NEELIX: Oh. I understand, Lieutenant. Sorry. I'll just watch for a while, if you don't mind.
VORIK: Here are the tools, sir.
NEELIX: I also had a question about the transporter buffers.
JANEWAY [OC]: Mister Neelix, please report to the bridge.
NEELIX: On my way, Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Neelix, we seem to be approaching some kind of interstellar dust clouds. Can you tell us anything about them? They look rather ominous to me.
NEELIX: I believe this is a region of space known as the Nekrit Expanse.
(The dust clouds are purple.)
JANEWAY: What can you tell us about this Expanse, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: It's a vast territory. No one knows much about it.
JANEWAY: Those plasma storms might be a problem for navigation. Full sensor scan, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Can we plot a course around it?
NEELIX: That might be advisable.
TUVOK: I don't believe so. It's thousands of light years wide.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to go through it. Looks like we'll be counting on your knowledge of the Delta quadrant even more than usual, Neelix.
NEELIX: Yes, ma'am. I'm at your command, as always.
JANEWAY: Will there be any planets where we can take on supplies?
NEELIX: There is a station near the border, a kind of supply depot for mining and trading ships. I suggest we stop there for provisions before we go into the Nekrit Expanse.
JANEWAY: What are the coordinates?
NEELIX: Er, let's see. It's actually been a while.
CHAKOTAY: I have the station on sensors, Captain. Three point four light years away, heading oh seven one mark one seven.
JANEWAY: You heard him, Tom.
PARIS: On our way.
(Later -)
TUVOK: We're being hailed, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
BAHRAT [on viewscreen]: Bahrat, manager of this station. What can I do for you?
(He doesn't look up from monitoring different screens.)
JANEWAY: Your station is a trading outpost, isn't it? I'd like permission to come aboard to negotiate for supplies.
(Now he looks up.)
BAHRAT [on viewscreen]: Granted. But understand that any transaction you negotiate on this station is subject to my approval. I receive a twenty percent commission on all trade. Your whereabouts will be closely monitored. Communications with your ship may also be monitored, at my discretion. Do you agree to these conditions?
JANEWAY: Evidently I have no choice
BAHRAT [on viewscreen]: Excellent. Meet me in my office in one hour and we'll discuss your needs.
(Transmission ends.)
PARIS: Pleasant fellow.
JANEWAY: Neelix, Chakotay, Tom. You're with me.

[Bahrat's office]

JANEWAY: Mister Bahrat?
BAHRAT: What is it?
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway. I've brought a list of the supplies we'll need.
BAHRAT: Forgive me, but it's demanding work watching over this station. We get all kinds of troublemakers here.
JANEWAY: I understand.
BAHRAT: All right, let's see it. Hmm. Hmm mmm. Hmm! Pergium.
JANEWAY: To regenerate the filters on our environmental control system.
BAHRAT: That might be a little difficult. It's a rare commodity. Give me a few moments and I'll put together a list of potential suppliers. But I'll warn you, they won't strike easy bargains.
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to deal fairly.
BAHRAT: Hmm.

[Station promenade]

(Paris and Chakotay are approached by a grey-faced alien with downturned mouth, wearing a robe with a hood.)
SUTOK: Good day, gentlemen, good day. Anything in particular you're looking for? Anything I can help you with?
CHAKOTAY: We were hoping to find some magnetic spindle bearings for our reaction control assembly.
SUTOK: Spindle bearing, spindle bearings. No, can't help you with that. No. Long voyage ahead?
PARIS: Er, you could say that.
SUTOK: I might have something that could ease your journey. Ease it considerably. Rhuludian crystals. Ingesting just one of these will make days of tedious travel seem like moments of exquisite rapture.
PARIS: No, thank you.
SUTOK: The price is surprisingly
CHAKOTAY: No.
PARIS: Nice place.
(Elsewhere, Neelix approaches a slightly more humanoid person.)
NEELIX: I see you're a map dealer.
MAP DEALER: I have coordinate charts for all the local mining colonies.
NEELIX: Actually, I'm interested in maps of the Nekrit Expanse.
MAP DEALER: You must be a stranger here or you'd know. There aren't any maps of that region.
NEELIX: Surely there's an astrometric chart or a database that would help me plot a safe course?
MAP DEALER: The Nekrit Expanse is too unstable to chart.
(Another Talaxian joins them.)
WIXIBAN: No matter. He never could plot a straight course anyway.
NEELIX: Wixiban? Wix, is that you? I can't believe it!
WIXIBAN: What are you doing here? I've never seen another Talaxian this far from home.
NEELIX: It's a long story. I'm one of the crew of a highly advanced starship.
WIXIBAN: Ah! I want to hear all about it. Come on, the tavern here serves the best toffa ale I've had in years.

[Station tavern]

NEELIX: I do a little of everything. Cook, guide, advisor to the Captain, possibly even an unofficial Ambassador.
WIXIBAN: Oh ho, ho. Life's been good to you.
NEELIX: Yes, I'm very, I'm very lucky. But what about you? What are you doing on this station?
WIXIBAN: A little of this, a little of that. To tell you the truth, things haven't gone quite so well for me.
NEELIX: I'm sorry.
WIXIBAN: Ever since that nasty business with the Ubeans, things have been difficult. But, you know me, can't keep Wix down long. I'm working on a trade deal now that should put me right back in the thick of things again.
NEELIX: I hope it works out. Er, Wix, about the Ubeans. I don't think I ever told you how much I valued what you did.
WIXIBAN: You'd have done the same for me.
NEELIX: Yes, I would have. But you were the one who got caught. I owe you a great deal. If there's anything I can do to help.
WIXIBAN: I'm fine, honestly. Maybe not on the crew of a magnificent starship, but I'll get by.
NEELIX: To tell you the truth, it's not quite what I told you. In fact I may not be on Voyager much longer.
WIXIBAN: Why?
NEELIX: The main reason Captain Janeway needed me was as a guide, to give her information about this quadrant. But I've never been beyond the Nekrit Expanse. I can't tell her anything about what's ahead.
WIXIBAN: But, your other jobs. Cook, Ambassador.
NEELIX: They don't really need a cook, and I don't think our Captain really requires an Ambassador. I've tried to find some other area where I might be useful, but, the truth is, I'm not needed. I'm hoping you can help me. I can't let Voyager go into that dangerous without some idea of what's there. I have to find a map.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix drops a pan of something.)
VORIK: Can I be of help, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Dinner isn't for an hour, Ensign Vorik, and I don't have time to prepare a snack.
VORIK: I don't require food at the moment. Lieutenant Torres sent me to adjust the control interface on your food replicators. You said you were experiencing difficulties with them.
NEELIX: Oh, of course. Go ahead.
(Chakotay enters with Wixiban.)
CHAKOTAY: Neelix. I thought you'd like to say hello to your old friend.
NEELIX: Well, er, yes. Yes, of course.
WIXIBAN: So, this is where you prepare your legendary feasts. You know, Commander, Neelix has more varied talents than anyone I've ever known. You're lucky to have him on board.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Wix was able to find those magnetic spindle bearings we were looking for. I don't know what we'd have done if he hadn't come up them.
NEELIX: Well, yes, Wix has always had a knack for finding those hard to locate items.
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you two reminisce for a while. Thanks again, Wix.
WIXIBAN: You're more than welcome.
(Chakotay leaves.)
NEELIX: Yes, this is the Mess room. On any given day I must be prepared to feed over a hundred people. About done, Ensign?
VORIK: Not quite.
NEELIX: Well I really don't need the replicators today, so you can finish later.
VORIK: As you wish.
NEELIX: Oh, and remind Lieutenant Torres. When she has a moment, I'd still like to go over a few things with her.
VORIK: I'll relay the message.
NEELIX: Thank you.
(Vorik leaves.)
NEELIX: Wix, please tell me those spindle bearings weren't stolen property.
WIXIBAN: Of course not. I wouldn't do that to you. Neelix, I need the work. I don't live on a comfortable starship. No one looks out for me except me. Maybe you've forgotten what that feels like.
NEELIX: I haven't forgotten.
WIXIBAN: I've been stuck on that trash heap of a space station for three years. My ship's been impounded. I can't afford to give Bahrat what he wants to get it back. Do you begrudge me an opportunity to make a fair trade?
NEELIX: Of course not.
WIXIBAN: I have news for you. I've located some pergium for your ship.
NEELIX: That's great news. Captain Janeway hasn't had any luck.
WIXIBAN: And I've found someone with a map.
NEELIX: Wonderful! How do we get it?
WIXIBAN: It'll involve several bartering sessions. I have the opportunity to sell medical supplies to an outpost whose people are dying of a lung disease. It's a good cause, and it will make me enough to pay Bahrat and get my ship back.
NEELIX: Where does the map come in?
WIXIBAN: When I deliver the medical supplies, one of the physicians will give me an astrometric chart.
NEELIX: I can't thank you enough.
WIXIBAN: I'll have to ask your help though. We'll need a shuttle. First, we have to get to a nearby freighter to pick up the medical supplies. Then we return to the space station and meet with one of the physicians from the outpost. With your transporter technology we could be in and out of the station within minutes. Then I could finally get away from here and get back to a Talaxian colony.
NEELIX: I don't think that would be a problem.
WIXIBAN: Just one thing. Don't tell anyone that we're delivering medical supplies to the station. Not even one person. If Bahrat finds out he'll take twenty percent, and I can't afford that.
NEELIX: I suppose there's no need to mention it.
WIXIBAN: Thanks, Neelix. I knew I could count on you.

[Shuttlecraft]

WIXIBAN: Didn't I tell you this would be easy? I got the medical supplies and you got the pergium your ship needs so badly.
NEELIX: Only twenty kilogrammes. I told Commander Chakotay it would be forty five.
WIXIBAN: You're lucky to get what you did. Come on, Neelix, A few minutes more and we'll be done. And you'll have a map to help you through the Nekrit Expanse. What is the matter with you?
NEELIX: I don't like keeping the whole truth from Commander Chakotay. It's not honest.
WIXIBAN: I don't remember you ever being so squeamish about twisting the truth.
NEELIX: Wix, I'm not what I used to be.
WIXIBAN: Neither am I. We've both tried to change our lives. You've done it. Now I have the same chance. We're almost there. We should have your transporter take us to corridor fourteen L, near the outer docking ports. It's hardly ever used. Our contact will meet us there.
NEELIX: We're within transporter range. I've entered the coordinates.
(Wixiban takes a hand phaser from a locker.)
NEELIX: What are you doing?
WIXIBAN: This station is a dangerous place, and these supplies are valuable. We have to be able to defend ourselves.
NEELIX: You said this would be easy.
WIXIBAN: It's just a precaution. Let's go.
NEELIX: Computer, energise.

[Space Station - Corridor 14L]

NEELIX: Where's your contact?
WIXIBAN: He'll be here, don't worry.
NEELIX: I don't like this, meeting in dark passages late at night.
SUTOK: Wix.
WIXIBAN: Sutok. This is my associate.
SUTOK: You have the supplies?
WIXIBAN: As promised.
(Sutok takes one of the vials. It glows in his hand.)
NEELIX: What's he doing?
WIXIBAN: Satisfied?
SUTOK: Completely.
NEELIX: What kind of medical supplies are those?
WIXIBAN: If you give me my payment, we'll be on our way.
SUTOK: Yes. I have it right here.
(Sutok steps behind some containers then shoots at them. Wixiban returns fire and hits Sutok.)
MAN: Stop them! Get his weapon!
NEELIX: Wix!
(The case of supplies is snatched from Neelix.)
MAN: Someone's coming!
(The thieves run off as an alarm sounds.)
WIXIBAN: Neelix! Get us out of here.
NEELIX: Computer, two to beam up.

[Shuttlecraft]

NEELIX: You lied to me from the beginning and I was foolish enough to believe you!
WIXIBAN: It should have been as easy as I said. I didn't know Sutok would try to steal the tubes.
NEELIX: Those aren't ordinary medical supplies. You failed to mention that.
WIXIBAN: They do have a medicinal application, but no one would pay what I was supposed to get if they were just simple medications.
NEELIX: They're narcotics, aren't they. Oh, you're up to your same old tricks. We have to talk to Captain Janeway as soon as we get back.
WIXIBAN: Do you really want to do that? How is it going to look to your shipmates when they find out you were once a contraband smuggler, and that you were involved in this ugly business tonight? You think your position on Voyager is precarious now? Wait till they discover the whole truth about you.
NEELIX: I can't just forget about this.
WIXIBAN: So you'd let Bahrat put me in cryostatic suspension? I guess you would. You did let me spend a year in that Ubean prison.
NEELIX: Wix.
WIXIBAN: I never told you what it was like in there, did I? About eating worms to stay alive. Sleeping in a cell where the vermin chew on you all night. Being punished in ways you couldn't imagine.
NEELIX: All right! I won't say anything. But I don't want to have anything more to do with you. The debt is paid.

Captain's log, supplemental. I have called a meeting of the senior staff to inform them of some very disturbing news I have just received

[Briefing room]

(Torres and Neelix are the last to arrive. Bahrat is there.)
JANEWAY: There's been a murder aboard the station.
CHAKOTAY: Murder?
JANEWAY: I've been told that's not an uncommon occurrence here. The man who dies has been suspected of criminal activity. Mister Bahrat, however, discovered something at the scene of the killing that greatly concerns me.
BAHRAT: During my investigation I discovered some energy readings I couldn't identify, so I ran a spectral analysis.
JANEWAY: He showed me the analysis just a few minutes ago. It's a Federation phaser signature. Tuvok will be assisting Mister Bahrat in his investigation. I want to know how a weapon from Voyager could have been involved in this incident.
BAHRAT: The shooting took place in an abandoned section of the station. Security scanners were disabled. I'm reviewing other surveillance records, looking for anything that might help me apprehend whoever did this.
JANEWAY: I've promised Mister Bahrat the full cooperation of every member of this crew during his investigation. Dismissed.

[Tuvok's office]

NEELIX: You wanted to see me, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Please, sit down. I examined the scene of the shooting and confirmed the Federation weapon signature. A type two phaser blast. Fourteen Voyager crewmembers were off the ship at the time of the incident.
NEELIX: I see.
TUVOK: Several traders from the station were aboard Voyager on the day of the incident. We can't rule out the possibility that one of them managed to steal a phaser.
NEELIX: I suppose not.
TUVOK: What can you tell me about your friend Wixiban?
NEELIX: Wix?
TUVOK: Mister Chakotay reported that he was aboard Voyager.
NEELIX: Ah, yes. He delivered some magnetic bearings. We're more like acquaintances, not friends really. I haven't seen him in years.
TUVOK: Has he ever been involved in criminal activity?
NEELIX: I wouldn't know. I certainly don't think so.
TUVOK: I must question him, and I would appreciate your accompanying me.
NEELIX: Me? What could I do?
TUVOK: You may be able to help me evaluate the verisimilitude of his answers.
NEELIX: I see.
TUVOK: Please meet me in transporter room two at eighteen hundred hours.

[Station bar]

TUVOK: How much time did you spend aboard Voyager?
WIXIBAN: Probably less than an hour altogether.
TUVOK: Were you ever alone on the ship?
WIXIBAN: No. I was met by Mister Chakotay in your transporter room. Extraordinary experience, that transporter of yours. We delivered bearings to Lieutenant Torres, then Mister Chakotay and I paid a visit to my old friend Neelix in your mess hall.
TUVOK: Where were you at the time of the shooting?
WIXIBAN: In bed, asleep.
TUVOK: Can anyone corroborate that?
WIXIBAN: Alas, Mister Tuvok, I sleep alone.
TUVOK: That will be all for now, Mister Wix.
NEELIX: I'd like to stay for a glass of toffa ale.
TUVOK: As you wish, but please see me as soon as you return to the ship.
NEELIX: Yeah.
(Tuvok leaves.)
NEELIX: I'd forgotten how easy it is for you to lie.
WIXIBAN: You're not suggesting I tell him the truth?
NEELIX: Vulcan's aren't as easily fooled as you might think.
WIXIBAN: If you want to worry, I'll give you something to worry about.
NEELIX: What?
WIXIBAN: The people I was conducting that transaction for aren't happy that they didn't get paid.
NEELIX: I thought this was your scheme?
WIXIBAN: Do you think I could have afforded those tubes? I was acting as an agent for some Kolaati traders. Do you know anything about the Kolaati? They're mean as fire snakes. They will kill us, and it won't be quick.
NEELIX: I can't believe this is happening. Why did I ever listen to you!
WIXIBAN: Neelix, it's all right. I've convinced them to take something else in payment. Something easily come by. They know about Voyager. They want a sample of your ship's warp plasma. They'll be able to use it to increase the efficiency of their engines.
NEELIX: No. It's wrong. I won't do it. This has to stop.
WIXIBAN: You should have thought of that in the beginning. You're in too deeply now.
NEELIX: The people on Voyager are my friends. I can't steal from them.
WIXIBAN: Friends? You've already told me they're ready to put you off the ship. You're living in a dream world. It's time to wake up. You're on your own, just as I am, and you're going to die a horrible death at the hands of the Kolaati unless you bring them three grammes of warp plasma. Do you understand that? I've already told them you'll do it. Meet me here tomorrow morning at nine hundred hours.

[Storage room]

PARIS: Hey, Neelix, what's up?
NEELIX: Oh, nothing. Just thought I might give you a hand with whatever it is you're doing.
PARIS: Oh, you may regret that. Chakotay and I have to pick up a supply of biomimetic gel tomorrow morning, and I am trying to find to find the container that is listed as the proper transport device. Starfleet standard issue L647X7.
NEELIX: Well, sounds like another set of eyes won't hurt. M34, no not that one. L647. No, it's Y6. Tom, if it's not too bold of me, I wonder if I could ask you something?
PARIS: Sure, anything.
NEELIX: I've heard you were in some trouble in the past. Spent time in prison.
PARIS: That's right.
NEELIX: Do you, would you, tell me how you got in trouble?
PARIS: I've thought a lot about that, and it comes down to one simple fact. I didn't tell the truth. I made a mistake, which happens to people, but if I'd admitted that mistake it would have been a lot better. But I lied about it, and it nearly ruined my life. Why do you ask?
NEELIX: Oh, no reason. Just wondered. Here's your container.
PARIS: After I've done here, a bunch of us are going to go down to the resort. Why don't you come along?
NEELIX: Thanks, but I'm going to turn in early. Maybe another time.
PARIS: Okay.

[Engineering]

NEELIX: Good evening, Ensign.
VORIK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: I thought I'd log a little time in the Jefferies tubes, if that's all right.
VORIK: I was unaware you were officially on an engineering work detail.
NEELIX: Oh, it's not official, not at all, but Lieutenant Torres has been good enough to allow me to poke around here and there. As time permits, of course.
VORIK: She has mentioned your desire to become familiar with Starfleet engineering protocols. I see no reason why you can't proceed.
NEELIX: Thank you. Ensign Vorik.
VORIK: Yes, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: You're quite young. Is it difficult for you being so far away from everything that's familiar?
VORIK: Had I been given the choice, I might not have chosen to explore the Delta Quadrant. However, since we are here, I must say the challenges are intriguing.
NEELIX: Voyager is a wonderful place to be. People here are very fortunate.
VORIK: I would concur.
(Neelix goes into the Jefferies tubes and climbs a ladder. At the appropriate place, he opens a wall panel and takes a warp plasma container from a bag. Then he closes his eyes.)

[Station promenade]

WIXIBAN: Did you get it? Where is it?
NEELIX: I have to talk to you.
WIXIBAN: Give it to me.
NEELIX: I didn't get the warp plasma.
WIXIBAN: What?
NEELIX: I couldn't do it. I just couldn't. We have to tell the truth. It's the only way to make things right.
WIXIBAN: We're dead men, Neelix.
NEELIX: No. I have a plan.
BAHRAT: You two! Stay where you are!
WIXIBAN: Don't panic, stay calm.
BAHRAT: I said, stay where you are!
(Bahrat and his henchmen walk past Neelix and Wixiban, and go to Chakotay and Paris.)
PARIS: What is this?
BAHRAT: You two are under arrest.
PARIS: Arrest?
CHAKOTAY: What's the charge?
BAHRAT: Conspiring with known drug traffickers. And murder. Let's go!

[Bahrat's office]

(Bahrat shows Janeway and Tuvok surveillance footage of Chakotay and Paris talking with Sutok.)
BAHRAT: This is the criminal who was killed, and these are the two men we arrested.
JANEWAY: You can't seriously regard this as viable evidence.
BAHRAT: I realise it's circumstantial, but it is compelling.
JANEWAY: It proves absolutely nothing.
BAHRAT: It proves your two men had a conversation with a narcotics dealer only hours before he was killed.
TUVOK: As the Captain said, that proves nothing.
BAHRAT: I'm holding them for questioning. They are prime suspects.
JANEWAY: I want my security officer present during all interrogations.
BAHRAT: I'll take that into consideration. But make no mistake about this. Someone will serve fifty years of cryostatic suspension for that murder. If I were to let this go unpunished, it would be anarchy on this station within days.
JANEWAY: You make no mistake about this. I won't allow members of my crew to be condemned for a crime they did not commit.

[Station promenade]

(Janeway and Tuvok march past.)
NEELIX: This has gone too far. We have to go to Bahrat.
WIXIBAN: We'll end up in his cryostatic prison for decades.
NEELIX: Not if he agrees to my plan.
WIXIBAN: Your plan is crazy. It's worse than prison, it's a death sentence.
NEELIX: That would be better than living a lie. I'm going whether you do or not.
WIXIBAN: Neelix! We've been through too much together. I can't let you do this alone.

[Bahrat's office]

NEELIX: It was a type two Federation phaser that was used. It's on one of our shuttles. You can get it from our security officer to verify the energy signature.
BAHRAT: Which of you fired the weapon?
NEELIX: We were both involved in all aspects of the crime.
WIXIBAN: I was the one with the weapon, but I fired in self-defence.
NEELIX: So you see, Commander Chakotay and Lieutenant Paris are innocent.
BAHRAT: The punishment for trafficking in illicit substances is fifty years of cryostatic imprisonment.
NEELIX: Your cryostatic prison isn't a particularly effective deterrent, is it?
BAHRAT: It certainly is. There's very little narcotics trafficking that goes on here.
WIXIBAN: That's what you think. The Kolaati have made a fortune trading drugs here.
BAHRAT: I know everything that happens on this station.
NEELIX: Apparently not, since we were able to deliver narcotics to known criminals right under your nose.
WIXIBAN: They have ways of disabling your surveillance systems, masking your sensors, creating false visual signals. It happens almost every night.
BAHRAT: I'll put a stop to that.
NEELIX: Since you don't know how they do it, that might prove difficult. But we have a plan. The Kolaati want a sample of warp plasma from Voyager.
WIXIBAN: I'll arrange a meeting with them to deliver the plasma. When they arrive, we'll take them into custody.
BAHRAT: How do you plan to do that? You won't be able to carry weapons, and if they thought my men and I were near, they'd be gone in a second.
NEELIX: We have some ideas. If we are able to turn them over to you, will you agree not to charge us with a crime?
BAHRAT: It's no risk to me. You'll undoubtedly perish in this ridiculous scheme.
NEELIX: You'll have to provide us with a sample of warp plasma. I won't take any from Voyager.
BAHRAT: What I can give you won't be of the same quality.
NEELIX: Doesn't matter. We'll make do.
BAHRAT: All right, we'll try it. But I don't hold any hopes that you will survive.

[Space Station - Corridor 14L]

NEELIX: It's been over twenty minutes. Where are they?
WIXIBAN: I confirmed the time and place. They should be here. Maybe they've realised it's a trap? Maybe they're not going to show up?
NEELIX: Let's hope they do, or we will end up in Bahrat's prison.

[Bahrat's office]

(One moment Bahrat has them on surveillance, then next he is seeing an empty space.)
BAHRAT: It looks like someone's begun transmitting a false visual signal. My guess is they're about to come aboard. We'll give them five minutes, and then move in.

[Space Station - Corridor 14L]

(Three aliens approach.)
WIXIBAN: It's Tosin.
NEELIX: Who?
WIXIBAN: He's one of the most powerful Kolaati.
(Neelix presses a button on the plasma container, and they go to meet them.)
NEELIX: Good evening, gentlemen. My name is Neelix and I
TOSIN: The warp plasma, where is it?
WIXIBAN: It's right in here, Tosin, but first you must guarantee us
TOSIN: You'll live for today. No guarantees about tomorrow. Give me the plasma. Slowly.
(Neelix hands over the container, and Tosin scans it.)
TOSIN: Twenty parts per million isonucleic residue? This is contaminated. You promised me a pure sample.
NEELIX: It doesn't matter, because you're under arrest.
TOSIN: What?
NEELIX: I said, you're being taken into custody for smuggling contraband and narcotic substances. Very serious offences aboard this station, Mister Tosin. It's time you faced up to that.
TOSIN: (laughs) Little man, your days have ended.
NEELIX: I wouldn't fire that weapon if I were you. That plasma canister you're holding. I disengaged the safety nodes just as you came in. Even as we speak, warp plasma is leaking from it. This section of the station is filling with plasma particles. Fire your weapon and you'll set off an explosion that would undoubtedly kill us all.
WIXIBAN: He's telling the truth, Tosin. Don't do it.
NEELIX: And I wouldn't activate your transporter system, if I were you. The beam would also destabilize the plasma. Same effect. Boom.
TOSIN: Then you will die with me, little man.
NEELIX: No problem at all, if it means getting rid of an Orillian lung maggot like you. Go ahead. You'd be doing me a favour. I have nothing to lose. Fire away!
WIXIBAN: Neelix.
NEELIX: Shoot. What are you waiting for? Fire!
TOSIN: Re-engage the safety nodes.
BAHRAT: Don't bother. Put down your weapons. You're under arrest for violating station code four two seven nine, subsection beta three two five.
(One of Tosin's henchmen draws and fires his weapon at Bahrat.)
TOSIN: No! Don't!
(Everyone dives for cover as he ignites the green plasma particles and incinerates himself.)

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: I'm in sickbay?
EMH: Yes, Mister Neelix. You sustained third degree plasma burns and a moderate concussion, but my skills have prevented you from suffering permanent damage.
NEELIX: Thank you, Doctor.
TUVOK: One of the criminals was killed in the plasma explosion. The others have been taken into custody by Mister Bahrat.
KES: Chakotay and Tom were released.
NEELIX: Oh, good. And Wix?
TUVOK: Mister Wixiban was given his shuttle. He sent you his thanks before making a hasty departure.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: Would all of you excuse us, please? I'd like to talk to Neelix alone.
(Tuvok and Kes leave. The EMH goes to his office after receiving a Look.)
JANEWAY: Well, do you have anything to say for yourself?
NEELIX: Only that I'm terribly sorry.
JANEWAY: Oh. You're sorry. Is that supposed to make everything better? I don't really care whether you're sorry or not, Neelix. At this point it doesn't matter. I can't imagine what made you behave the way you did, lying to us, sneaking around behind our backs, covering up criminal activity. Did you have some misguided reason to think this was acceptable behaviour?
NEELIX: No, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You've been one of my most trusted advisors since we began this journey. How can I ever trust you again? How can I ever listen to you without wondering whether you're telling the truth or not?
NEELIX: I've never been dishonest to you before, I swear, Captain. I just took one step. A step that seemed perfectly reasonable. And that step lead to another and another, and before I knew what I was involved in something I didn't know how to handle.
JANEWAY: What was it? What was so important that you were willing to throw away your principles?
NEELIX: I needed a map.
JANEWAY: A map?
NEELIX: Captain, my usefulness to you was at an end. I don't know anything about space beyond this point. I couldn't let you go into the Nekrit Expanse without knowing what you faced.
JANEWAY: You've been on this ship for two years. I'd think by now you'd have learned that the first duty of any Starfleet officer is the truth. You violated that duty, Neelix, and there will be consequences.
NEELIX: I'm prepared to leave the ship, Captain.
JANEWAY: Oh no, it's not that easy. You can't just walk away from your responsibilities just because you made a mistake. You're part of a family now. and you have obligations.
NEELIX: But, I can't guide you. I can't advise you. I don't know what's coming.
JANEWAY: Well, that's not the point, is it? None of us knows what's coming. That's what Starfleet is all about. We are all in this together, Neelix, and we have to be able to count on each other no matter how hard it gets. Do you understand?
NEELIX: Yes. Yes, I do.
JANEWAY: Well, that's good. Report to deuterium maintenance at oh four hundred tomorrow morning. You're going to spend the next two weeks scrubbing the exhaust manifolds. That should give you time to think about what I've said. Dismissed.


S3 E14
Alter Ego
Stardate: 50460.3
Original Airdate: January 15, 1997

Captain's log, stardate 50460.3. We've been investigating an inversion nebula for several days. This phenomenon has never been seen in the Alpha Quadrant, and is proving something of a mystery to us here.
[Bridge]

JANEWAY: According to Federation astro-theorists, inversion nebulae are so unstable they're supposed to burn out within a few years, but this one appears to be centuries old.
PARIS: Maybe the theorists were wrong. After all, they never had a chance to look at the real thing.
CHAKOTAY: Not entirely wrong. These plasma strands we're approaching look ready to ignite.
JANEWAY: Tom, back us off two thousand kilometres. That'll give us a safety margin.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, set the sensors for full spectrum scans, continuous sweep. If that nebula does flare up, I don't want to miss a beat. Mister Kim, I need your attention on the sensors.
KIM: Sorry, Captain. Full spectrum scans. I'm on it.
JANEWAY: Astro-theory never predicted this would be so lovely. Beauty and mystery, a tantalising combination.
PARIS: No argument here. Right, Tuvok?
TUVOK: I am fully capable of appreciating this phenomenon without the extraneous sentimentality humans find so necessary.
CHAKOTAY: Being moved by an emotion isn't always extraneous. Sometimes it's the whole point.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok is carefully inserting short metal rods into a complex globular construct. The doorbell rings.)
TUVOK: Enter. Mister Kim. Can I help you?
KIM: Er. That's kal-toh, isn't it? Vulcan chess?
TUVOK: Kal-toh is to chess as chess is to tic-tac-toe.
KIM: I should have known.
TUVOK: What is on your mind, Ensign?
KIM: Tuvok, I need your help. I want to eliminate emotions, like Vulcans do.
TUVOK: Mister Kim, it is a lifelong process.
KIM: I realise that. And I also know that Vulcans use certain techniques.
TUVOK: The t'san s'at, the intellectual deconstruction of emotional patterns.
KIM: I'm willing to learn.
TUVOK: May I ask why?
KIM: I have feelings I don't want to have.
TUVOK: That would seem to be self-evident. And what is the nature of those feelings?
KIM: I'm in love, and I don't want to be.
TUVOK: I see. And who is the object of your affections?
KIM: Her name is Marayna.
TUVOK: I am not aware of anyone on the ship with that name.
KIM: She's not a member of the crew. She's a character on the holodeck.
TUVOK: You're in love with a computer subroutine?
KIM: That's the problem.
(Tuvok places his final rod, and the construct transforms into an elegant polygon.)
TUVOK: Interesting.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: To see through an emotional complex is to rob it of its power. The first step is to identify the complex in which you have been caught.
KIM: I told you. I'm in love.
TUVOK: There are many different kinds of love, Ensign. You must learn to differentiate. For example, you told me that you met this individual only days ago. Yet you feel overwhelmed.
KIM: I can't get her out of my mind. Not for a second.
TUVOK: Have you been able to sleep?
KIM: No.
TUVOK: Have you eaten?
KIM: No.
TUVOK: Does your daily routine seem somehow empty, perhaps even ludicrous?
KIM: Yes!
TUVOK: You are experiencing shon-ha'lock, the engulfment. It is the most intense and psychologically perilous form of eros. I believe humans call it love at first sight.
KIM: But we're talking about a holodeck character.
TUVOK: Irrelevant. The emotional complex in which you are trapped is the same and so is the cure. Logical deconstruction, followed by a regimen of meditative suppression. As I shall demonstrate.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

(Neelix is directing the hanging of a paper lantern.)
NEELIX: Ah, a little further to the left. Mmm, no. That's too much.
KIM: Neelix. Have you seen Marayna?
NEELIX: Ah, perfect. Welcome, gentlemen. Just getting things ready for tonight's little get-together.
KIM: I completely forgot. The luau.
NEELIX: Polynesian style. I've done my research. Er, Lieutenant Tuvok, you neglected to RSVP.
TUVOK: That was not an oversight, I assure you.
KIM: Where's Marayna?
NEELIX: Who?
KIM: She's part of this programme.
NEELIX: Doesn't ring a bell.
KIM: How could you miss her? She's tall, athletic, blonde.
NEELIX: Oh, one of the entertainment directors. I believe she's giving Kes a hydrosail lesson.
(A crewman is carrying a tiki torch.)
NEELIX: No, no, not there. There.
KES: Harry, Tuvok, the lake is perfect today.
MARAYNA: Hello, Harry.
KIM: Hi, Marayna.
KES: We were just talking about you.
KIM: You were?
KES: Marayna said what an excellent student you are.
KIM: She's a great instructor.
MARAYNA: Ready to get your ears wet?
TUVOK: Vulcans do not hydrosail.
MARAYNA: Oh, why not?
KES: Lieutenant Tuvok prefers the solitude of his own quarters and a game of kal-toh.
MARAYNA: I'm sure we can do better than that.
KES: I'm going back on duty. Thanks.
MARAYNA: You're welcome. (to Kim) There's a volleyball game starting down in the sand.
TUVOK: Mister Kim and I would prefer some conversation. Would you care to join us?
MARAYNA: All right. I tried a reverse curl this morning. I think I pulled a tendon. Feel that.
(She puts Kim's hand on her right calf.)
KIM: It's like a knot.
TUVOK: I'm sure it is.
MARAYNA: Are you two friends?
KIM: Yes.
TUVOK: No. We're colleagues. I respect Mister Kim for his intelligence and his integrity. And I assume he holds me in the same regard.
MARAYNA: So Vulcans don't hydrosail, and they don't have friends?
TUVOK: We have fellowships and associations, but without the emotional dimension humans experience.
MARAYNA: Hmm. (to Kim) You and I are friends, aren't we?
KIM: Er, yeah.
MARAYNA: Good.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Tuvok and Kim. Report to the bridge.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. We're on our way.
MARAYNA: There's a luau tonight. You're coming, aren't you? Both of you?
TUVOK: No.
KIM: Yes.
MARAYNA: You've got to stop doing that.
TUVOK: Ensign?

[Corridor]

TUVOK: As I predicted, your responses were as formulaic as a mathematical equation.
KIM: What do you mean?
TUVOK: Consider the expression on your face when Neelix did not recall Marayna. Annoyance.
KIM: That's not true.
TUVOK: It is quite true. At that moment, Neelix was functioning in Vulcan terms as the soo-lak, the third party who, by his very lack of interest, trivialises your own.
KIM: I guess it really did bother me.
TUVOK: And the arrival of Kes with Marayna then precipitated in you the k'oh-nar, the feeling of being completely exposed.
KIM: I was embarrassed, and I was sure Kes would take one look at my face and know exactly what I was feeling.
TUVOK: And when Marayna placed your hand on her stressed tendon.
KIM: Let's not even talk about that.

[Turbolift]

TUVOK: Bridge.
KIM: It's all so predictable.
TUVOK: That's just what I've been trying to get you to perceive. To the trained Vulcan intellect, intense romantic love is nothing more than a set of stereotypical behaviours. Not having our discipline, typically, humans are swept along by the process until it ends.
KIM: How does it end?
TUVOK: Either in conversion to a more balanced, stable relationship, or in tragic circumstances.
KIM: I can't have a balanced, stable relationship with a holodeck character. Marayna's a computer programme. She could never feel for me what I feel for her.
TUVOK: Exactly. Logic dictates a single course of action. Retreat.
KIM: To tell you the truth, I don't even like hydrosailing.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The temperature's five thousand degrees kelvin and rising.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: We've located a plasma strand that looks like it's seconds from igniting.
CHAKOTAY: There is some kind of unknown process that's been keeping this nebula from going up like a torch. We're going to see it in action.
TUVOK: And if there isn't?
PARIS: I've got my hand on the controls. We'll be out of here before it even touches our shields.
KIM: Captain, the temperature is nine thousand degrees kelvin. I'm picking up a subatomic cascade reaction.
PARIS: There she goes.
(The strand flares, then vanishes in a big flash.)
KIM: The plasma strand completely burned itself out.
CHAKOTAY: Without causing a chain reaction in the nebula.
JANEWAY: Harry, what put out the flames?
KIM: Sensors show some kind of dampening effect between the strands, but I can't isolate it.
JANEWAY: Like a firebreak in space.
CHAKOTAY: If we understood how this happened, we might be able to find a new way to contain a warp core breach.
JANEWAY: Or any plasma reaction. It's an investigation worth pursuing. Tom, it seems safe enough. Take us in for short range sensor scans. Let's find out all we can about this phenomenon.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll see all of you at Mister Neelix's luau. I'm sure everyone will be attending.
(Janeway leaves, having given her orders.)

[Corridor]

(Torres comes out of the turbolift wearing a 1960s style floral dress. Tom is in the obligatory loud Hawaiian shirt.)
PARIS: Lieutenant, you look absolutely
TORRES: Tropical?
PARIS: More along the lines of smashing.
TORRES: Thanks.
PARIS: Of course, nothing can quite measure up with this shirt. This is an exact recreation of a 1962 Big Daddy-O Surf Special, an American classic.
TORRES: I'd say you put just a little bit too much thought into that.
PARIS: Now that's where you're wrong.
TORRES: Let's go. I told Vorik we'd pick him up at sixteen hundred hours, and you know how Vulcan he gets when anybody is late.
PARIS: Vorik? I thought we were meeting Harry.
TORRES: Oh, he's not coming.
PARIS: Why not?
TORRES: He said he was busy.
PARIS: With what?
TORRES: I don't know.
PARIS: Harry and I will meet you and Vorik at the luau.
TORRES: You're pretty confident about your powers of persuasion.
PARIS: Yes, I am.

[Kim's quarters]

(Kim is trying to meditate when the doorbell chimes.)
KIM: Come in.
PARIS: Surf's up, Mister Kim.
KIM: Hi, Tom.
PARIS: Harry, this is a luau. You look like you're dressed for a funeral. What are you doing?
KIM: A Vulcan meditation.
PARIS: What for?
KIM: To suppress my emotions.
PARIS: Is something wrong?
KIM: Not really.
PARIS: The resort woman? What was her name?
KIM: Marayna. How did you know that?
PARIS: Well, for two days now, every time I look for you it's always, he's in Holodeck one. And since you don't like hydrosailing, I figured something was going on.
KIM: Am I that predictable? You sound like Tuvok.
PARIS: Tuvok? He told you to do all this?
KIM: Logically, the best course is retreat. Meditation helps.
PARIS: Retreat? A classic case of Vulcan denial, if you ask me. Come on, Harry. We have all fallen for a holodeck character. It happens. You deal with it by staying with your normal routine, not by hiding out in your quarters.
KIM: I'm not hiding out. I'm deconstructing the emotional complex.
PARIS: Okay. Have fun.
KIM: No, wait. Computer, standard illumination. I'm getting tired of this anyway.
PARIS: Computer, one Hawaiian shirt.
COMPUTER: Specify parameters.
PARIS: Pineapple motif.

[Holodeck - Luau]

(Full luau mode, with Hawaiian guitar music, leis and grass skirts, and lit tiki torches. Tuvok is in his uniform.)
NEELIX: Greetings, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: No, thank you.
NEELIX: I've done a great deal of ethnographic research on the Polynesian cultures on Earth. The flowered garland, or lei, is said to represent the flowering of love. It's a marvellous tradition, don't you think?
TUVOK: Marvellous.
NEELIX: Oh. Oh, my! Did I programme a centrepiece that big? Computer, open parameter adjustment file.
(Neelix throws a lei over Tuvok's head and scurries away. Tuvok removes it.)
EMH: The life of a recreational hologram - dining, dancing, non-restrictive clothing. (he gets a kiss) I see the allure. (to another girl) Your turn.
(Janeway is with Chakotay. She receives a lei.)
JANEWAY: Oh, thank you. Tuvok, I'm glad to see you here.
TUVOK: I would never disobey an order, Captain, no matter how burdensome.
JANEWAY: There's a difference between an order and a suggestion.
CHAKOTAY: The evening's young, Lieutenant. Let's mingle.
TUVOK: Vulcans do not. Curious.
CHAKOTAY: What's that?
TUVOK: If you will excuse me.
(Tuvok goes over to Marayna, who is at a table playing kal-toh.)
TUVOK: A common error among novice players. By placing the t'an on opposite sides of the kal-toh, you are attempting to introduce a spatial balance, a strategy that will most certainly fail.
MARAYNA: Why?
TUVOK: Kal-toh is not about striving for balance. It is about finding the seeds of order, even in the midst of profound chaos. May I?
MARAYNA: Please.
(Tuvok places a piece, and part of the structure transforms.)
MARAYNA: How beautiful.
TUVOK: Kal-toh is not about beauty.
MARAYNA: I understand, but it's still beautiful. Did you learn to play on Vulcan?
TUVOK: Yes. From the age of five, I took lessons from a master.
MARAYNA: I thought you might enjoy having an opponent. Playing alone must get a little predictable sometimes.
TUVOK: You are perceptive.
MARAYNA: Yes, I am. Extremely so.
GIRL: Aloha, miss.
(She gives Marayna a lei.)
GIRL: Sir?
TUVOK: No, thank you.
MARAYNA: You're the only one here not wearing a garland.
TUVOK: Given the decor, it seems somehow excessive.
MARAYNA: I don't believe you.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon.
MARAYNA: I think you're tying to isolate yourself and make a public protest at the same time.
TUVOK: Explain.
MARAYNA: You didn't want to be here in the first place. Being the only one without a lei sets you apart from the others, allowing you to symbolically maintain your solitude. And since everybody can see that you're the only one without a lei, you're letting them know that you'd rather be somewhere else.
TUVOK: Your logic is impeccable.
(Marayna takes off her lei and gazes into Tuvok's eyes. Elsewhere, Paris takes two pineapples from a tray.)
PARIS: Thanks.
(They contain drinks.)
TORRES: Thanks. I am starving.
PARIS: Oh, me too. Let's find us a spot. This place is filling up fast.
VORIK: I have already taken the liberty of reserving a table, Lieutenant, with a view of the lakeside. You did express a fondness for that particular vista.
TORRES: I did?
VORIK: Five days ago in a conversation we had in Engineering regarding holodeck programmes.
TORRES: I guess maybe I did.
PARIS: Good memory.
VORIK: Of course.
TORRES: Well, then, Ensign, let's go.
(Torres and Vorik leave. Paris goes off to find his best friend looking around for someone. Kim spots Marayna with Tuvok.)
PARIS: Harry?
KIM: What?
PARIS: Do you want to get something to eat or not?
KIM: I don't know. Maybe this isn't a good idea. Listen, I'm going back to my quarters.
PARIS: Harry.
KIM: Tom!
PARIS: Okay. Okay. I'll see you tomorrow.
(Kim leaves. The evening draws on. Almost everyone has left the holodeck.)
MARAYNA: I like the excitement of the water, the danger of being tossed around by the wind and the waves. But at the same time, feeling like I'm in control.
TUVOK: The illusion of control.
MARAYNA: That's exactly right, because no one can control the wind and the waves. But for a few moments when you're on the water, and the ride is perfect, the feeling is that you can. You ever feel that?
TUVOK: No.
MARAYNA: Never? Don't you have an imagination?
TUVOK: If by imagination, you mean the ability to spontaneously generate images within my mind, then, yes, I have a highly developed imagination, as do all of my race.
MARAYNA: All right, imagine this, that you with your logic and your reason, are skimming atop endless waves of emotion. You believe you're in control, but you know that control is an illusion. You believe that you understand the depths beneath you, but that, too, is an illusion.
TUVOK: I can see why Ensign Kim finds you compelling.
MARAYNA: I can see why Harry admires and respects you, because it's obvious that he does. And so do I.
TUVOK: I must return to my quarters.
MARAYNA: Please stay. I've never met anyone like you.
TUVOK: I must admit, I share that conclusion. You are a unique individual.
MARAYNA: Then stay.
TUVOK: It is late. I must go.
MARAYNA: Then come back tomorrow. I'm sure the weather will hold.
TUVOK: No doubt.
MARAYNA: Please.
TUVOK: Perhaps.
MARAYNA: Good night, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Good night, Marayna.

[Outside the holodeck]

TUVOK: Computer, end resort programme.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've completed sensor scans and confirmed our discovery of an unusual dampening field responsible for keeping this unstable nebula from going up in flames. The field's origin is still a mystery.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The dampening field only seems to appear when one of the plasma strands ignites, as if the fire itself initiates the field.
JANEWAY: Which puts out the fire. A feedback loop.
CHAKOTAY: One that's preserved this nebula for hundreds of years.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, do we have enough data on this dampening field to produce one artificially using the deflector dish? Harry, do we have the data?
KIM: Yes, Captain. But it'll take a while. We'll have to simulate the process on the computer, and then try to recreate it with the deflector dish. Probably a few weeks.
JANEWAY: The project is yours, Ensign. Tom, resume course for the Alpha Quadrant, warp six.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
(Beep.)
PARIS: Captain, propulsion is not responding.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, what's going on?
TORRES [OC]: I'm not sure, Captain. We're trying to track the problem now.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Harry, give B'Elanna a hand.
CHAKOTAY: The nebula could be having an effect on the ship's systems.
JANEWAY: That's a possibility we can't discount.

[Engineering]

VORIK: The warp drive is functioning within established tolerance levels. Matter antimatter containment is at recommended field strength. The impulse engines are also
TORRES: Within tolerance.
VORIK: Yes.
TORRES: Most likely there's some kind of failure in the computer pathways. Nothing's wrong with propulsion, but the commands from the helm just aren't getting there.
KIM: The warp drive seems okay. Impulse too. I think the problem must be somewhere else. I think maybe the helm's being blocked.
TORRES: Like some kind of failure in the computer pathways?
KIM: Maybe.
TORRES: I just said all that. You're not listening, Harry.
VORIK: I'll return to my station, Lieutenant.
KIM: I'm sorry. I guess I've got a lot on my mind.
TORRES: Forget about her.
KIM: What did Tom say to you?
TORRES: Not a single word. I saw the way you were looking at Marayna yesterday.
KIM: Hi. My name's Harry read-me-like-a-book Kim.
TORRES: It's not that bad.
KIM: Apparently it is. I can't get her off my mind.
COMPUTER: Input algorithm not accepted.
TORRES: Why don't you take a break? I can handle it from here.
KIM: Thanks. I'll be in my quarters if you need me.

[Turbolift]

KIM: Deck three. Computer, belay that order. Holodeck one.

[Outside the holodeck]

KIM: Computer, activate Neelix resort programme.
COMPUTER: That programme is currently running.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]

(Marayna and Tuvok are playing kal-toh.)
MARAYNA: Hello, Harry.
KIM: Enjoying yourselves? Now I know why you told me to keep off the holodeck.
TUVOK: Mister Kim, you are misconstruing the nature of this situation. Your jealousy is entirely insupportable.
KIM: Stop analysing me! I respected you. I trusted you. And you did this right behind my back.
TUVOK: I have done nothing of the sort.
KIM: Then what do you call this?
TUVOK: A game of kal-toh which I am playing with a nonsentient computer subroutine.
MARAYNA: Harry, I didn't intend to harm you, and I didn't do anything wrong.
KIM: I'll accept that from her, Tuvok, but not from you. You said to stay away from her. You should have done the same.
TUVOK: You're implying a desire on my part that simply does not exist. Marayna is an intriguing interactive hologram, nothing more.
KIM: If you say so, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Mister Kim, I value our working relationship. I would not allow a holodeck character to disrupt that.
KIM: I think it's a little late
MARAYNA: Tuvok! Harry! Please. Stop arguing.
TUVOK: Computer, delete the Marayna subroutine.
MARAYNA: Tuvok, what are you
(Marayna vanishes.)
KIM: That's not going to help. I never should have come to you in the first place. I should have worked it out myself.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Let's try it again, Mister Paris. Warp six.
PARIS: Course laid in.
JANEWAY: Engage. It would appear to me that we're not moving, Mister Paris.
PARIS: I don't understand it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Any ideas, B'Elanna?
TORRES: Warp drive is still on line, and helm control appears to be working, but the engines aren't responding. It's possible we've got a computer malfunction, but I can't seem to localise it.
JANEWAY: Let's run a level four computer diagnostic. All systems.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
TORRES: Captain, I just got aft thrusters to respond. It's not much.
JANEWAY: I'll take it, B'Elanna. Tom, let's go.
CHAKOTAY: At this speed, we'll be completely clear of the nebula by tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Good enough.

[Tuvok's quarters]

MARAYNA: Your move.
(Marayna is wearing a Starfleet uniform and mobile emitter.)
MARAYNA: I think you'll find my game has improved.
TUVOK: How did you get here?
MARAYNA: Simple. I transferred myself from the holodeck to the sickbay, then used your physician's mobile emitter.
TUVOK: I deleted you from the holodeck.
MARAYNA: But you only did that for Harry's benefit. I know you wanted to keep seeing me. I like Harry, but you're different. You're not like anyone else.
TUVOK: Why have you come here to my quarters?
MARAYNA: You're like a new world to me, Tuvok. I want to know everything about you. I didn't realise how lonely my existence was, and I can't go back to the way things were, not without you.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Intruder alert. Security team to my quarters.
MARAYNA: No! Why did you do that? Don't you want us to be together?
TUVOK: Given your actions, I have no choice but to consider you a potential threat to myself and to Voyager.
MARAYNA: But you're wrong. I would never do anything to harm you. Make it stop!
(The alarm stops.)
TUVOK: You have access to the ship's control systems?
MARAYNA: And I'll use them all if I have to. You can't just delete me!
(Two security guards enter, and she vanishes. The mobile emitter drops to the deck.)

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Where is this individual now?
TORRES: When security got to Tuvok's quarters, she downloaded herself back into the computer and onto the holodeck.
PARIS: More to the point, what is she?
CHAKOTAY: Most likely a sentient computer programme. I checked the Starfleet database. This kind of thing has happened before. The Enterprise-D under Picard was once taken over by a holocharacter.
(That would be Moriarty.)
KIM: We studied that case at the Academy. It gained control of the ship from inside the holodeck.
TUVOK: Marayna may well have done the same. She was able to silence the intruder alert by an apparent act of will.
JANEWAY: Does that mean she has the run of our entire computer system?
TUVOK: She may.
JANEWAY: Is it possible that she's the source of our mysterious malfunctions?
TORRES: It's certainly possible. If Marayna's able to manipulate the ship's computer pathways, she could have disrupted propulsion and then covered her tracks so we couldn't trace the cause.
JANEWAY: But why? What's her motivation?
TUVOK: I believe it has something to do with her feelings toward me. In my quarters, she made reference to her loneliness and expressed her desire to continue our relationship.
PARIS: But what does that have to do with knocking propulsion offline?
CHAKOTAY: Could she be trying to keep us near the nebula?
KIM: This all started the day we got here. That's when I first met her. Maybe the nebula is somehow affecting the holodeck.
JANEWAY: Giving rise to an intelligence that doesn't belong there.
TORRES: It's possible.
JANEWAY: In any case, I can't allow her to gain any further control over my ship. Tuvok, Paris, Torres, get down to holodeck one. (to Tuvok) I want this situation resolved one way or another.

[Outside the holodeck]

TORRES: She's locked us out of the programme. We'll be lucky if we can open the doors.
(The doors open.)
PARIS: We're lucky.
TUVOK: Marayna may have opened the doors. Caution is advised.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

(The luau is back on.)
TORRES: I'll try to access the inside control panel.
PARIS: It's kind of creepy.
TUVOK: Marayna's attempting to recreate the setting of my previous encounter with her.
PARIS: Ah. You really know how to pick 'em, Tuvok.
TORRES: I got access to the holodeck computer.
PARIS: I'm not reading anything unusual on the holodeck. It seems to be working perfectly.
TORRES: There's a subspace signal coming from outside of Voyager. It's some kind of an uplink. There's somebody on a ship out there, tapping into the
(A girl starts to strangle Torres with a lei.)
PARIS: B'Elanna!
(A pair of big Polynesians fight Tuvok while a girl knocks down Paris. Tuvok wins, then encounters a forcefield.)
TUVOK: Shoot the control panel.
(Paris wards off a girl and obeys. The holocharacters vanish.)

[Bridge]

(Voyager is drifting into the inversion nebula, and strands are igniting near them, shaking the ship.)
JANEWAY: Shield status.
KIM: Still holding, Captain, but the inertial dampeners are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Starboard shields are down to eighty percent.
JANEWAY: What happened down there?
TUVOK: Marayna attacked us and attempted to restrain me. She has control over the holodeck characters.
JANEWAY: But she's not actually on the holodeck. I found an uplink and tracked it to the nebula. She's on a hidden ship or a space station. She's manipulating the holodeck from there.
CHAKOTAY: She's been using the Marayna character like a puppet.
JANEWAY: As an interface, a way to move around Voyager to interact with us.
MARAYNA [OC]: Tuvok, come back to me. I'm waiting for you.
JANEWAY: Harry, try to trace the uplink. Find her.
MARAYNA [OC]: Don't make this more difficult than it already is, Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you responsible for the plasma fires?
MARAYNA [OC]: You're giving me no other choice but to force the issue.
JANEWAY: What do you want?
MARAYNA [OC]: Tuvok. I want Tuvok. Let him come to the holodeck alone, or I'll destroy your ship.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

MARAYNA: Tuvok, you're back.
TUVOK: I had little choice.
MARAYNA: We're alone now. No one can see us or hear us. We can do whatever we want. You don't have to pretend anymore. This is our world.
TUVOK: You successfully lured me here by threatening the ship, but any attempt to generate intimacy between us will not be successful.

[Bridge]

TORRES: I've isolated the source of the uplink signal.
JANEWAY: Stand by to transport.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

MARAYNA: I understand your sense of duty, of loyalty to your captain, but we have something stronger, a connection that goes beyond duty and loyalty. I know you want to be with me, Tuvok.
TUVOK: You must leave Voyager now and allow us to continue on our course.
MARAYNA: I won't.
TUVOK: I suggest you reconsider, or Captain Janeway will be forced to take action.
MARAYNA: There's nothing she can do. You're staying here with me. She'll just have to accept that.
TUVOK: Energise.

[Bridge]

KIM: Transporting to the source of the uplink.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

MARAYNA: Stop!
(Tuvok is beamed away.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Shields are down to forty seven percent.
(Tuvok arrives in a darkened area. His comm. badge does not work.)
CHAKOTAY: Shields are gone.
JANEWAY: Try to hail Tuvok.
KIM: I can't Captain. Something's blocking the signal.

[Space station]

TUVOK: Marayna.
MARAYNA: Your ship is helpless. If I ignite one more strand, the hull will fail.
TUVOK: You are using the nebula as a weapon.
MARAYNA: My nebula.
TUVOK: I will fire if necessary.
MARAYNA: You're too late. I've already set the ignition sequence. Only I can stop it.
TUVOK: Are you alone here, on this station in this nebula?
MARAYNA: Yes. It's my work.
TUVOK: I don't understand.
MARAYNA: I keep the plasma fires from chain-reacting.
TUVOK: You are responsible for the dampening field we've been investigating.
MARAYNA: That's correct. I generate it from here to preserve the nebula so that others from my home planet may enjoy its beauty. I watch the ships when they pass by. They don't even know I'm here.
TUVOK: You are lonely.
MARAYNA: By choice. I prefer to be here, alone.
TUVOK: But you uplinked with our holodeck and created a character in order to interact with us.
MARAYNA: To amuse myself. I have done it before. Tapped into the computer of a passing alien vessel, examined all the little details of their lives. But I never expected to find something as diverting as your holodeck. I never expected to find you. You are like nothing else I've ever encountered. And I can't be without you. Stay here with me, and I will let your ship resume course.
TUVOK: If it is the only option, I would willingly sacrifice myself to save my crewmates.
MARAYNA: No! That's not enough. You have to want to be with me.
TUVOK: If you truly understood who and what I am, you would know that I could never return your affections.
MARAYNA: But you are more like me than you are like them. I've seen the way you isolate yourself. Even in a crowd of people, you're alone. We should be together.
TUVOK: I must admit, I have found our conversations stimulating. Your insight and intelligence, fresh and unexpected. In other circumstances, I would be willing to spend time in your company, to continue to share knowledge and ideas. But I have a home and a spouse on Vulcan. I have a mission, and colleagues who depend on me. I do not have a complete understanding of emotions, but I believe that if you truly care for me, you will not pursue this course of action.
(Marayna works a control panel, then stands.)
MARAYNA: You may go. Your communicator will function now.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Go ahead, Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: I am ready to return. Stand by to beam me aboard.
KIM: Captain, ship's systems are coming back online.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged, Tuvok.

[Space station]

JANEWAY [OC]: Standing by.
TUVOK: Consider this. Your feelings toward me may be evidence of a deeper need. A more profound loneliness than you are willing to admit. Why don't you call for a replacement? Let another occupy this task. Attempt for a time to live among your own kind.
MARAYNA: Logically, that would be the best thing to do.
TUVOK: Yes.
MARAYNA: Perhaps I will.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. Ready for transport.
MARAYNA: But what about you, Tuvok? Will you always be alone?
(Tuvok looks at her as he is beamed away.)

Security chief's log, stardate 50471.3. The remaining damage to the ship was easily repaired, and we soon left Marayna's nebula behind. Voyager is back on course, and I have resumed my normal routine.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

(Tuvok is playing kal-toh in his quarters, when he puts down a rod, turns of its projector base, picks it up and leaves.)
TUVOK: Mister Kim, would you be interested in learning to play kal-toh?
KIM: I thought kal-toh was beyond human understanding.
TUVOK: Not entirely. Ensign, I failed to respect the complexity of your emotions. I apologise for my lack of consideration.
KIM: Don't worry about it, Tuvok. Apology accepted.
(Tuvok activates the kal-toh base.)
KIM: Won't this take years to learn?
TUVOK: It will indeed.
GIRL: May I join you?
TUVOK + KIM: No.
TUVOK: But thank you.


S3 E15
Coda
Stardate: 50518.6
Original Airdate: 29 January, 1997

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Oh Captain, do you have a minute?
JANEWAY: Just about a minute. I'm on my way to the shuttlebay.
NEELIX: I thought last night went well, didn't you?
JANEWAY: Extremely well. Everyone had a lot of fun.
NEELIX: I was thinking of making it a regular feature, say once a month?
JANEWAY: It's certainly worth a try.
NEELIX: And Captain, you were especially good last night.
JANEWAY: Thanks, Neelix. It's been a while.
NEELIX: You'd never know. Now, Captain, I, do you think, I mean, I, I, I was wondering if
JANEWAY: What is it, Neelix?
NEELIX: Could you possibly keep Mister Tuvok busy on the bridge that evening?
JANEWAY: I'm sure something could be arranged. Our secret, Neelix.
NEELIX: We never had this discussion.

[Shuttlecraft Sacajawea]

(Heading towards a brown planet.)
CHAKOTAY: Harry's clarinet solo was okay. I could have done without Tuvok's reading of Vulcan poetry. But the highlight of the evening was definitely Kathryn Janeway portraying the Dying Swan.
JANEWAY: I learned that dance when I was six years old. I assure you, it was the hit of the Beginning Ballet class.
CHAKOTAY: I don't doubt it. If Neelix has another talent night I hope you reprise it.
JANEWAY: Oh, no. Not until certain other people take their turn. The ship's First Officer for instance.
CHAKOTAY: Me? Get up in front of people and perform? I don't think so.
JANEWAY: Come on, Chakotay, there must be some talent you have that people would enjoy. Maybe I could stand with an apple on my head and you could phaser it off.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds great. If I miss I get to be Captain. Atmospheric turbulence. We might be in for a rough landing.
JANEWAY: Funny, a minute ago there wasn't any indication of rough weather.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading even more severe storms near the surface.
JANEWAY: Ion lightning. Maybe we'd better try the fifth planet instead and come back here when things have cleared up.
CHAKOTAY: I think we took a lightning hit. Attitude control is out.
JANEWAY: I'm switching to manual.
(Bang!)
CHAKOTAY: The navigational system's out.
JANEWAY: Reverse engines. Full thrusters.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hydrazene gas leak.
JANEWAY: Altitude twelve kilometres. Hull temperature four thousand degrees. We have to reduce speed.
CHAKOTAY: I'll try the emergency anti-grav thrusters.
(The shuttlecraft tumbles through the clouds. The next time we see it, it is on the ground, badly damaged. Chakotay revives to see Janeway lying on the floor.)
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn. Kathryn!
(He checks her pulse.)
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn! Kathryn!
(He gets out a medical tricorder and scans her. The beeps are not good.)
CHAKOTAY: No!
COMPUTER: Warning. Hydrazene gas levels at one hundred twelve parts per million. Begin evacuation procedures.

[Planet surface]

(Chakotay carries Janeway outside, and lays her down again a little way from the shuttlecraft.)
CHAKOTAY: Hang on, Kathryn.
(He starts CPR.)
CHAKOTAY: Breathe, damn it. Breathe! Don't you die on me now. Come on, Kathryn. Breathe! Listen to me, Kathryn. You've got to breathe. Breathe! Breathe! Come on. Come on!
(He gives her an injection and she gasps.)
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Don't ever do that to me again.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
CHAKOTAY: You went into shock. You gave me quite a scare there for a minute. This should help reduce your cranial swelling. Should have a headache for a while.
JANEWAY: I'll live with it.
CHAKOTAY: We need to set up a homing signal. Hey, take it easy.
JANEWAY: I'm all right. Chakotay, we're going to need the blankets and the rations.
CHAKOTAY: I can get them. You set up the homing signal. Here. At least the storm seems to be dying.
(Chakotay runs back to the shuttlecraft, and Janeway starts work on her comm. badge with the tool Chakotay gave her.)
JANEWAY: What were you looking at?
CHAKOTAY: There are phaser burns on the hull. I don't think it was lightning strikes that hit us. I think we were shot down.
JANEWAY: By whom?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. I'm going back to see if I can get an energy signature from the burns.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, the homing signal. We might be telling someone just where to find us.
CHAKOTAY: Disconnect it while I scan the shuttle.
(She goes to join him.)
JANEWAY: Can you tell anything?
CHAKOTAY: The signatures are Vidiian.
JANEWAY: Vidiian? I thought we'd moved beyond their space.
CHAKOTAY: If they shot us down you can be sure they'll be coming for us. We need to find a hiding place.
JANEWAY: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Life forms, fifty metres from here. They're coming this way.
JANEWAY: Let's go.
CHAKOTAY: There's another group in this direction. We're surrounded.
JANEWAY: Let's take cover. We'll have to fight.

[Cave]

(Two Vidiians approach them.)
JANEWAY: Back off now. We'll fire if we have to. Back off!
(A Vidiian shoots Chakotay.)
JANEWAY: Chakotay!
(The other grabs Janeway by the throat and strangles her.)

[Shuttlecraft Sacajawea]

CHAKOTAY: Harry's clarinet solo was okay. I could have done without Tuvok's reading of Vulcan poetry. But the highlight of the evening was definitely Kathryn Janeway portraying the Dying Swan.
JANEWAY: I learned that dance when I was six years old. I assure you. Wait a minute, what's happening here?
CHAKOTAY: You're right. We have been here before.
JANEWAY: Do you remember Vidiians?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. They shot us down and attacked us.
JANEWAY: We may have wandered into some kind of repeating time loop. I'm going to scan for temporal anomalies.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever's going on, let's change tactics this time. Let's not try to land on that planet.
JANEWAY: Agreed. I don't see any evidence of temporal flux, or any kind on anomaly for that matter.
CHAKOTAY: Or of Vidiian ships.
JANEWAY: So far, so good.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Chakotay to Voyager, do you read us?
JANEWAY: We're out of range. I'd still like to figure out what happened to us. Send a subspace message that we won't be landing on the planet. Tell them that we'll be looking for evidence of temporal anomalies. I see a ship approaching at high impulse. It's on an intercept course.
CHAKOTAY: Is it Vidiian?
JANEWAY: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: I've got it. It's a warship, loaded with weaponry. It's closing fast.
JANEWAY: Can we outrun it?
CHAKOTAY: We can try.
JANEWAY: They're two hundred thousand kilometres away and gaining.
CHAKOTAY: Setting evasive pattern Delta four.
JANEWAY: They're powering weapons. Shields up! Stand by all phaser arrays.
(The ship opens fire from near point-blank range.)
CHAKOTAY: Shields down to eighty four percent.
JANEWAY: Returning fire.
CHAKOTAY: Nice aim.
JANEWAY: It didn't stop them.
(Bang!)
CHAKOTAY: We've lost shields!
JANEWAY: Firing starboard array!
CHAKOTAY: That one hit the reactant injectors.
JANEWAY: Shut them down, they'll leak antimatter.
CHAKOTAY: The magnetic fields are failing. The gas flow separators are down.
JANEWAY: Dump the core!
(Suddenly, they are back to where they started.)
JANEWAY: It's looking more and more like we're in a time loop. The question is, how do we break it?
CHAKOTAY: Let's retrace our steps. Get back to the part of space we were in before all this started happening.
JANEWAY: Agreed. If we're experiencing a temporal field, a tachyon burst might disperse it. Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. It's a Vidiian ship.
JANEWAY: Two Vidiian ships, still twenty million kilometres away but headed right for us.
CHAKOTAY: Sacajawea to Voyager. Do you read us?
TUVOK [OC]: You have just come into comm. range, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're being pursued by two Vidiian ships. Set a course for our shuttle and have weapons powered.
JANEWAY: We also believe we're experiencing some kind of temporal phenomenon, a time loop. Make certain you scan for anomalies.
TUVOK [OC]: Aye Captain. We're on our way.
CHAKOTAY: If you're going to emit that tachyon burst, you'd better do it now. In a couple of minutes those ships'll be right on top of us.
JANEWAY: Here goes.
(Whoosh.)
JANEWAY: I can't tell if it's affecting anything.
CHAKOTAY: The Vidiians are almost within range. Ready weapons. What happened?
JANEWAY: They just vanished! But I'm picking up a residual temporal signature.
CHAKOTAY: Then those ships must have been part of the time loop.
JANEWAY: And the tachyon burst disrupted it.
CHAKOTAY: Not a minute too soon. I was getting awfully tired of talking about Talent Night.
TUVOK [OC]: Voyager to Sacajawea. We will rendezvous with you in approximately four minutes.
JANEWAY: Believe me, Tuvok, we're looking forward to it.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Good to have you back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good to be here. I'd still like to get to the bottom of whatever was happening to us in that shuttle. Did Voyager detect any evidence of a temporal field?
TUVOK: To my knowledge, we did not.
JANEWAY: Let's run a second level temporal scan. I'd feel better entering this part of space if I knew what caused the phenomenon.
TORRES: Phenomenon? I'm not sure what you mean, Captain.
JANEWAY: The time loop, or whatever it was we ran into out there.
PARIS: Time loop?
JANEWAY: We told you, Chakotay and I experienced some kind of temporal loop. It involved the Vidiians. They'd attack and kill us and then we'd be sitting in the shuttle again. Tell them.
CHAKOTAY: We were on our way to the second planet of a binary system.
JANEWAY: To collect some nitrogenase compound. But we encountered a storm and we crashed.
CHAKOTAY: And then we were attacked by the Vidiians, but we managed to escape and get back here.
TUVOK: You and the Commander were checked by the Doctor, who treated your injuries, and you proceeded here to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: But I don't remember anything about a repeating time loop.
JANEWAY: You don't remember how we kept ending up in the shuttle talking about Talent Night? Then I'm the only one who recalls things differently. Something strange is going on here. I'll have the Doctor examine me. In the meantime, I still want those temporal scans.
CHAKOTAY: You heard the Captain. Let's get moving.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I ran a microcellular scan after you returned to the ship. I have just analysed the results.
JANEWAY: What did you find?
EMH: You have contracted a disease. The Vidiian Phage.
JANEWAY: The Phage? What about Chakotay? Is he infected too?
EMH: No, Commander Chakotay shows no signs of the disease.
JANEWAY: How did I get it?
EMH: You said one of the Vidiians grabbed you. It may be that the virus was transferred in that way.
JANEWAY: But we've encountered Vidiians like that before and had physical contact with them. No one's ever gotten sick that way.
EMH: I can't offer an explanation at this point. It may be that the Phage virus has mutated to become more infectious. I believe however this explains the hallucinations you described. There is often concomitant stress to the thalamus in the early stages of the disease. It is known to cause a kind of dementia that produces hallucinations.
JANEWAY: What's the prognosis?
EMH: I wish I could tell you, Captain. For the moment it would be best if you remained in sickbay, under quarantine.
JANEWAY: Of course.
EMH: The fact that the virus has acted so quickly raises the possibility that others on the crew may be infected.
JANEWAY: But you've studied the Phage in great detail. Have you made any progress in finding a cure?
EMH: I hadn't pursued the matter since we seemed to have moved beyond Vidiian space. But I'll now redouble my efforts. In the meantime I'd like to give you a sedative. Captain? I'll be running a series of deep level tissue scans.
JANEWAY: I understand.
EMH: There. That should give you a good night's sleep. I'll erect a bioforcefield, and I promise you, Captain, I won't deactivate myself until I have some answers for you.
JANEWAY: Doctor. I know I'm in good hands.
(Janeway lies on the biobed in the surgical bay in her uniform, and the forcefield comes on. When she wakes, she is in a sickbay robe and has lesions on her hands and face.)
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: Ah, you're awake.
JANEWAY: How long have I been asleep?
EMH: Almost forty hours.
JANEWAY: Forty.
EMH: I'm afraid this strain of the Phage is particularly virulent. It's spreading rapidly.
JANEWAY: Have you? Is there any hope of a cure?
EMH: I regret to inform you that I have been unsuccessful.
JANEWAY: Then what's the next step?
EMH: I've given that a great deal of thought. The prospects are unpleasant, Captain. You face a lingering, painful death marked by increasing periods of dementia and eventual insanity.
JANEWAY: I see.
EMH: I've come to the conclusion that there's only one humane course of action.
JANEWAY: What's that?
EMH: Euthanasia.
JANEWAY: What?
EMH: It would be wrong to subject you to such a prolonged and painful death. The crew would also be adversely affected if that were to happen.
JANEWAY: Surely there are other options to explore, Doctor. B'Elanna's DNA for instance. It's coded to produce antibodies against the Phage.
EMH: Klingon DNA might provide a vaccine for the disease, but not a cure. I'm sorry, Captain. The space within the forcefield is filling with a neural toxin. It is fast acting and merciful.
JANEWAY: Turn it off. That's an order, Doctor!
EMH: Please relax and take deep breaths. It will be over more quickly that way.
JANEWAY: Computer, delete Emergency Medical Hologram.
COMPUTER: A security code is required for that command.
JANEWAY: Security code Janeway Lambda Three.
COMPUTER: That code is not recognised.
JANEWAY: I'm the Captain! Delete the EMH!
COMPUTER: A security code is required for that command.
JANEWAY: Don't do this. It isn't right.
(Janeway slumps to the deck, gasping, and dies.)

[Shuttlecraft Sacajawea]

JANEWAY: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: I know. We're back.
(There is a bright light ahead of them.)
JANEWAY: That's it. That must be the anomaly. That's what's behind all this.
CHAKOTAY: It's exerting a gravito-magnetic force.
JANEWAY: We've got to get away from it. Divert all power to the engines.
CHAKOTAY: Changing course. We're still being drawn toward it.
JANEWAY: Reverse engines, full power.
CHAKOTAY: Structural integrity is weakening.
JANEWAY: Reinforce the hull.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, maybe we should go in.
JANEWAY: No!
CHAKOTAY: Listen to me. Maybe we're doing this all wrong. Maybe the thing to do is fly into it.
JANEWAY: No, I don't believe that. We've got to get away.
CHAKOTAY: It's going to tear the shuttle apart. The hull is breaching!

[Planet surface]

(Janeway watches Chakotay performing CPR on her.)
CHAKOTAY: Don't you die on me, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, what's happening?
CHAKOTAY: Start breathing! Breathe, dammit. Breathe! Don't do this to me, Kathryn. Come on, Kathryn, breathe.
JANEWAY: Can't you hear me?
CHAKOTAY: Don't you die on me. Come on, breathe. Kathryn, listen to me, you have to breathe. Start breathing! Come on! Come on!
(He scoops her up in his arms, weeping.)
CHAKOTAY: No, Kathryn! You can't die.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, I'm here.
TUVOK [OC]: Voyager to Sacajawea, do you read us?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Voyager. How far are you? I have an emergency here.
TUVOK [OC]: We're in orbit, Commander. We've located you but transporters won't function in the storm. A shuttle is on its way to the surface now.
CHAKOTAY: The Captain's dead. We have to get her back to sickbay. The Doctor may still be able to revive her.
TUVOK [OC]: The away team should be with you in minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: I know you can't see me or hear me. I don't know what's going on. But I am here, Chakotay. I am not dead.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, we're going to get you back.

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay is there while the EMH and Kes work on the dead Janeway. Janeway watches.)
EMH: Ten milligrammes cordrazine. We'll use it in conjunction with the cortical stimulator. Now!
KES: No pulse, no blood pressure. Minimum electrical activity in the midbrain. No measurable response in the cerebral cortex.
EMH: Again.
KES: Doctor, we're getting a thready pulse.
EMH: Quickly. Seventy five milligrammes inaprovaline. I'll begin direct synaptic stimulation.
KES: Pulse is weakening. We're losing her again.
EMH: Cortical stimulator. Now!
KES: No vital signs. No brain activity.
EMH: Again!
KES: No change.
EMH: Again!
KES: Doctor
EMH: Don't question me. Again! Make a note in the log. Death occurred at oh three twenty hours. Cause, massive cerebro-vascular collapse.
(Chakotay leaves.)
JANEWAY: Computer, confirm Janeway voice pattern. (nothing) Kes, you're a telepath. You've been able to sense things others can't. Kes, can you sense me?
EMH: Kes, please go to the science lab and prepare the autopsy protocols.
(Kes leaves. Janeway walks through the doors as they close.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I'm here, Kes. I'm staying with you until you realise it.
(Kes walks through Janeway then stops a few paces later.)
KES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Did you feel that, Kes? It was me.
KES: Kes to Commander Chakotay. I need to talk to you right away.

[Briefing room]

KES: Maybe it was nothing, but I have the strongest feeling that the Captain was there in the corridor with me.
TUVOK: It is possible that in your distress over the Captain's death you imagined that you were aware of her.
KES: It was more than that, I'm sure of it.
CHAKOTAY: In the past Kes has shown an ability an unseen presence. I think we have to take her seriously.
TORRES: The Captain's consciousness might have phase-shifted out of our reality.
PARIS: She could be in some kind of alternate dimension in subspace.
NEELIX: We have to find her somehow.
TORRES: Harry and I can run a full subspace sweep, see if we can come up with anything.
CHAKOTAY: Get on it. It's your top priority. Neelix, help the crew with this. Keep their morale up until we can get some answers.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, sir. Right away.
TUVOK: Commander, I suggest I work with Kes. I may be able to help her increase the range of her perceptions.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea. Tom, we'll take duty stations.
JANEWAY: That's more like it.

[Engineering]

TORRES: I've reconfigured the lateral sensor array to scan subspace.
JANEWAY: Don't forget to run a magneton sweep.
KIM: The forward array is ready to scan for temporal phase-shifting, chronoton particles or field flux.
TORRES: I'm going to activate the magneton scanner. It might pick up an anomalous presence.
(The bright light comes through the door.)
JANEWAY: Now what?
(A man in Starfleet uniform walks out of the light.)
JANEWAY: Daddy! Who are you? Are you responsible for what's going on here?
ADMIRAL: You know who I am, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: My father died over fifteen years ago.
ADMIRAL: Yes. Drowned under the polar icecap on Tau Ceti Prime. It was devastating to you.
JANEWAY: You may be an hallucination, or some kind of projection of my own imagination, but you are not my father.
ADMIRAL: Kathryn, Kathryn. I raised you to be a doubter and a sceptic, to look at the world with a scientist's eye, but in this instance that won't work.
JANEWAY: Why not? If you know what's going on here, tell me.
ADMIRAL: Isn't it clear? You're dead. You died in that shuttle crash.
JANEWAY: No, no, no, that's not possible.
ADMIRAL: I understand your confusion, your refusal to accept what's happened. I went through the same thing after my accident.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
ADMIRAL: I went back to you, and your mother, and your sister after I died for a long time, until I realised it was futile. That's what happens when dead is unexpected. One's consciousness isn't prepared to let go.
JANEWAY: Consciousness. Is that what you're calling me? Kathryn's consciousness.
ADMIRAL: For the want of a better word. Some say ghost or spirit. We all heard the stories and thought they were the product of vivid imaginations or self-induced hysteria. I'll admit I was surprised when I found they were true.
JANEWAY: If you stayed with me after you died, you should be able to tell me what happened then.
ADMIRAL: You were so grief-stricken you fell into a terrible depression. You spent months in bed, sleeping away your days rather than confronting your feelings. I'm not sure what would have happened if your sister hadn't forced you into the real world again.
JANEWAY: If you're an hallucination, a part of me, you'd know those things.
ADMIRAL: Kathryn, remember, several times after I died you woke up thinking I was in the room with you? You told your sister it felt absolutely real. That's because it was real. I was there trying to convince you to get on with your life.
JANEWAY: Just for the sake of argument, let's say you're right. What's next?
ADMIRAL: That's up to you. Eventually you will cross over. The only question is how long it will take you to give up this world.
JANEWAY: Cross over to where?
ADMIRAL: I don't know what to call it. Another state of consciousness, unlike anything we could have imagined in life. It's not a frightening place, Kathryn. It's full of joy and indescribable wonder.
JANEWAY: Kes sensed I was here. They're looking for me.
ADMIRAL: People have felt the presence of ghosts throughout the ages, but the technology to find them still hasn't been invented.
JANEWAY: They won't give up easily.
ADMIRAL: But they will give up eventually. They'll accept what's happened, and that's what you have to do.
JANEWAY: Kes did it once, she can do it again. I'm going to help her.
ADMIRAL: If that's what you feel you need to do, I understand.

[Tuvok's quarters]

TUVOK: Let us try one more time. Open yourself to the impressions around you, The thoughts, the minds that are on this ship. All the minds that are on this ship.
KES: I hear them. So many voices.
TUVOK: They are a turbulent storm, and you are the one who must rise above the tempest, to a place that is quiet.
KES: It's difficult.
TUVOK: You must lift yourself from the confusion of the storm. soar into the quiet space among the stars where everything is still.
KES: Yes, I'm in that place now.
TUVOK: Is there a voice that you can hear? A single voice isolated in the stillness?
JANEWAY: Kes, I'm here. Focus on me, on my voice.
TUVOK: There are only two beings in the void. you and Captain Janeway. Nothing else exists that can interfere. Can you hear her voice, however faintly?
KES: I'm trying.
TUVOK: Is there anything? Any presence in the void with you?
KES: I don't think so. I can't hear anything.
JANEWAY: Kes, keep trying. You have to find me.
TUVOK: Now I am with you, moving through the quiet space. My thoughts join with yours, extending the range of the search.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, surely you must know I'm here? We've shared so much.
KES: I'm just not getting anything.
TUVOK: Nor am I.
KES: I felt empty. alone. Maybe you're right. What I sensed wasn't the Captain. it was me wanting to believe she wasn't dead.
TUVOK: We've been trying for three days without success. Nor have Lieutenant Torres and Ensign Kim found any indication that the Captain is alive. There is a point at which we must accept the inevitability of her death.
KES: Thank you for helping. I don't think I would have accepted it if you hadn't at least tried. Goodnight.
(Kes leaves.)
TUVOK: Tactical officer's log, supplemental. My attempt to help Kes detect the Captain's presence has ended in failure. I am forced to conclude that we have, in fact, lost Kathryn Janeway. I would like the record to show that I have lost a good friend as well as one whom I can never replace.
JANEWAY: Oh, Tuvok.
ADMIRAL: They all love you, Kathryn. It's going to be hard for them.
JANEWAY: This can't be happening. I don't believe it.
ADMIRAL: Because you don't want to. Tomorrow, it will become easier.
JANEWAY: My memorial service.

[Mess hall]

TORRES: When I came to this ship I resented the fact that Captain Janeway was responsible for our being stranded here in the Delta Quadrant. I didn't think that she made the right decision, and I certainly didn't want to serve under her command. In the beginning, I fought her. Even when she made me Chief Engineer, I didn't trust her reasons. I kept looking for a hidden agenda. I actually believed that she'd set me up to fail. Well, I couldn't have been more wrong. She saw, she saw something in me that I didn't see. She saw a worthwhile person, where I saw a lost and hostile misfit. And because she had faith in me I began to have faith in myself. And when she died, the first thing I thought was that I couldn't do this without her. That I needed her too badly. Her strength and her compassion. But then I realised that the gift that she gave me, and gave a lot of us here, was the knowledge that we are better and stronger than we think. I wish I had said these things to her. I wish I'd taken the time.
CHAKOTAY: Would anyone else like to say something?
KIM: I would, sir. I know Captain Janeway wouldn't want us to be sitting around moping. She'd want us to be cheering each other up, remembering the good times. Like the away mission when we found all those bushes of over-ripe fruit. I must have eaten half a kilo. My hands and mouth were all purple, and the Captain. The Captain came and sat down next to me, and her mouth was all stained too. She put her arm around my shoulder and she said. She said, Ensign, these are the times we have to remember. It. It's. Sorry.
CHAKOTAY: I know this hasn't been easy, but I think we'll all be better for it. We will honour the Captain one last time. Release the pod.
(A crewman blows a bosun's whistle as Janeway's torpedo casing coffin is sent out into space.)
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kim was right when he said the Captain wouldn't want us to be sad. Neelix has prepared some food, and it would be nice if we could all get together and share the good times we had with Captain Janeway.
ADMIRAL: It's over, Kathryn. There's nothing left for you here. Come with me.
JANEWAY: What do I do to leave here?
ADMIRAL: Just decide. The only thing that keeps you is your refusal to leave.
JANEWAY: You may be right in everything you've said to me, but I'm not ready to accept it. I'm not ready to go.
ADMIRAL: My poor little bird. You always made it hard for yourself. If there was a rocky path and a smooth one, you chose the rocky one every time.
JANEWAY: If I stay, maybe it'll be easier for them. Maybe I could be comforting somehow.
ADMIRAL: You're saying all the things I told myself when I refused to leave you. I was hoping you wouldn't have to go through that. It's a horrible existence, Kathryn. As time wears on you begin to see how potent, how destructive, loneliness is. You'll see the people you love going on with their lives, doing all the things you used to share with them, but you won't be a part of it any more. You'll be forever shut out of their existence. It becomes agonising. I don't want that to happen to you.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's what it will take for me to make that decision. I just know that now I'm not ready.
ADMIRAL: What can I do to convince you?
JANEWAY: Nothing. I can't, I won't abandon them. We're too much a part of each other, can't you see it? We've been through so much together. I have to know what's going to happen to them. To see Kes continue to grow and learn. To know if Tom and B'Elanna will ever stop sparring with each other and develop a real friendship.
ADMIRAL: You can only be an observer of their lives, never a participant.
JANEWAY: I don't care. I'd rather be here in spirit than not at all. A Captain doesn't abandon ship.
ADMIRAL: Every hour you stay here makes it that much more difficult to leave.
JANEWAY: Why are you pushing me? I've made up my mind. I'm staying here.

[Planet surface]

EMH: The cortical stimulator is working. I'm getting a weak pulse.
CHAKOTAY: She's coming back.
EMH: I'll use cordrazine along with the stimulator.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: What was that? What happened?
ADMIRAL: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I saw Tuvok and Chakotay and the Doctor.
ADMIRAL: Here?
JANEWAY: No. It was different, as though, as though I were looking up at them.
ADMIRAL: An hallucination like the others.
JANEWAY: It didn't feel like the others. I didn't see myself. I was looking up at them. That's the real me, isn't it, lying on the ground on that planet, dying, and this is the hallucination. This isn't real.
ADMIRAL: More denial. You're only making it harder on yourself.
JANEWAY: You're trying very hard to convince me to come with you. Why is that? If what you're saying is true, why not let me come to the decision on my own?
ADMIRAL: I'm trying to spare you unnecessary pain.
JANEWAY: My father would never act like this. He always believed I had to learn my own lessons, make my own mistakes. He never tried to shield me from life. Why would he try to shield me from death? You're not my father. I could be imagining you, but I don't think so. You have such a specific agenda. You're determined that I go with you somewhere. Who are you?
ADMIRAL: I'm trying to help you. Stop fighting me.
JANEWAY: Are you an alien being of some kind? Is that it?

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: Her eyes are open.
EMH: Vital signs are responding. Blood pressure is sixty over thirty.
TUVOK: But the entity is still inhabiting her cerebral cortex, impeding your treatment.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, hang on. We're bringing you back. Just fight a little longer.
EMH: Direct synaptic stimulation might drive out the alien presence.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: I was right. I heard Tuvok and Chakotay and the Doctor. You're an alien. You've created all these hallucinations, haven't you?
ADMIRAL: This is what my species does. At the moment just before death one of us comes to help you understand what's happening, to make the crossing over an occasion of joy.
JANEWAY: And what is that?
(The bright light tunnel growing behind him.)
ADMIRAL: Our Matrix, where your consciousness will live. I was being truthful when I said it was a place of wonder. It can be whatever you want it to be.
JANEWAY: Then why didn't you tell me this from the beginning? Why pretend to be my father.
ADMIRAL: Usually people are comforted to see their loved ones. It makes the crossing over a much less fearful occasion. I've done this many times, but I've never encountered someone so resistant.

[Planet surface]

EMH: Something's happened. The alien presence is getting stronger again.
CHAKOTAY: Fight it, Kathryn, just a little longer.
EMH: I'll have to try a thoron pulse.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: My people are telling me to fight. They're trying to save me.
ADMIRAL: They're trying out of desperation. It's hopeless.
JANEWAY: You're the one who sounds desperate. I don't get the feeling you're trying to make me comfortable. You're only interested in my agreeing to come with you.
ADMIRAL: Because it's inevitable.
JANEWAY: And you don't strike me as any type of Good Samaritan. You're more like a vulture, preying on people at the moment of their death when they're at their most vulnerable.
ADMIRAL: I've waited for you. I've been patient.
JANEWAY: But your patience is wearing thin. What's the real reason you want me in that Matrix? Somehow I don't think it has anything to do with everlasting joy.
ADMIRAL: You must go with me.
JANEWAY: If you could force me to go, you'd have done it already. You need me to agree, don't you? I have to go voluntarily.
ADMIRAL: Wouldn't that be better than standing here in this endless debate?
JANEWAY: Let me tell you this. We can stand here for all eternity and I will never choose to go with you.
ADMIRAL: You're in a dangerous profession, Captain. You face death everyday. There'll be another time, and I'll be waiting. Eventually you'll come into my Matrix and you will nourish me for a long, long time.
JANEWAY: Go back to hell, coward.
(The Admiral walks into the tunnel, which is now blood red. It finally disappears.)

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
EMH: I'm no longer detecting the alien presence. Vital signs are responding. Blood pressure one ten over sixty five.
(Janeway awakes.)
JANEWAY: Doctor, what happened?
EMH: Perhaps you can explain, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You and I were caught in a magnetic storm and crashed here. You were badly injured. The Doctor just arrived on the shuttle with Tuvok and began treating you.
TUVOK: As he was doing so we detected an alien presence within your cerebral cortex. It appeared to be preventing our attempts to heal you.
EMH: Eventually it was dislodged, but there were a number of times I thought we'd lost you.
CHAKOTAY: But each time you seemed to fight back.
JANEWAY: He kept telling me to let go, but I wouldn't.
TUVOK: He?
JANEWAY: My father. The alien. He wanted to take me into another place.
CHAKOTAY: Another place? Some kind of afterlife?
JANEWAY: Maybe. But I can tell you this. From what I saw, it's certainly not where I'd like to spend eternity.

Captain's log, stardate 50518.6. The Doctor has examined me thoroughly and pronounced me physically fit, but I'll admit that it'll take a little longer to work through the emotional impact of my experience.

[Ready room]

(Janeway is reading a PADD when the doorbell chimes.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
(Chakotay enters, with a rose.)
CHAKOTAY: I could have sworn I heard the Doctor tell you to take it easy for a few days.
JANEWAY: Talking it easy usually makes me feel worse.
CHAKOTAY: You shouldn't push yourself. You've been through a lot.
JANEWAY: Oh. To tell you the truth, I'd rather stay busy than dwell on what happened.
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that. I can't help thinking about it. That alien, his Matrix. He was like the spider that has to lure a fly into his web.
JANEWAY: Do you think it's possible that each of the near death experiences we've heard about are the result of an alien inhabitation?
CHAKOTAY: That's a little hard to believe.
JANEWAY: I hope so. I'd prefer to think his species was unique to the Delta Quadrant and that I've seen the last of him.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure that's the case. After going head to head with Kathryn Janeway he must have realised he'd met his match.
JANEWAY: Come on, Chakotay. We've cheated death, that's worth a celebration, don't you think? A bottle of champagne, moonlight sail on Lake George, how does that sound?
CHAKOTAY: Like something worth living for.


S3 E16
Blood Fever
Stardate: 50537.2
Original Airdate: 5 February, 1997

Captain's log, stardate 50537.2. Routine scans of an uninhabited star system have revealed the presence of gallicite, a very rare substance, on the fourth planet.
[Bridge]

TORRES: If these readings are right, we're looking at a yield of nearly a kiloton. That would be enough gallicite to completely refit the warp coils.
PARIS: They sure could use it with all the damage they've taken the past two years.
CHAKOTAY: Is there anyone in the area who might consider this their property?
TUVOK: They are indications that a colony once existed on the planet's surface. However, it appears to be long abandoned.
JANEWAY: All right, let's stake a claim. I'll leave this in your hands, B'Elanna. Use whatever resources or personnel you need. You might want to talk to Mister Neelix. I believe he spent some time working in a mining colony.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Engineering]

TORRES: These tunnels are clearly artificial. Someone else must've been interested in digging up this gallicite.
VORIK: That should make it easier to access the deposits.
TORRES: True, but we have to be careful. There's been a lot of seismic activity down there. Look, theses tunnels are completely collapsed. We should bring Tom Paris on the away team. He's had quite a lot of rock climbing experience.
VORIK: I have spent several summers exploring the Osana caverns, which involved some quite treacherous climbing.
TORRES: Great. You two can be our safety experts.
VORIK: Have we completed our preparations to your satisfaction?
TORRES: We're done here, yes.
VORIK: Let me take this opportunity to declare koon-ut so'lik, my desire to become your mate.
TORRES: What?
VORIK: In human terms, I am proposing marriage. Do you accept?
TORRES: This is, er, a little sudden, isn't it? Besides, I thought that Vulcan marriages were arranged. Don't you already have somebody back home?
VORIK: She has sufficient reason to consider me lost, and has most likely chosen another mate. It's appropriate for me to do the same.
TORRES: And you've chosen me?
VORIK: I have come to greatly admire not only your impressive technical skills, but also your bravery and sense of moral duty. All excellent qualities in a prospective mate.
TORRES: But you're Vulcan. I am half-Klingon. I really can't imagine
VORIK: Perhaps we are not an obvious match. However, our differences would complement each other. You've often expressed frustration with your Klingon temper. My mental discipline would help you control it. Furthermore, I feel that
TORRES: Wait, please. Please, I'm. I see that you've given this a lot of, er, logical thought and I really am very flattered, but my answer is no. I'm sorry.
VORIK: B'Elanna, you may wish to reconsider. Your choices for a mate are currently limited to seventy three male crew members on this ship, some of whom are already unavailable.
TORRES: I'll worry about my choices myself, thank you.
VORIK: I should also remind you that many humanoid species are unable to withstand Klingon mating practices
TORRES: Okay, that's enough.
VORIK: whereas my superior Vulcan strength would make me a very suitable partner.
(Vorik grabs Torres' face with both hands. She manages to break his hold and knocks him down.)

[Sickbay]

KES: Here are the results of his cortical scan.
TORRES: So what's wrong with him?
EMH: In addition to a dislocated jaw, Ensign Vorik seems to be suffering from a neurochemical imbalance.
TORRES: Meaning what?
EMH: I believe I should discuss that with the patient privately.
(Torres leaves.)
EMH: You're going through the Pon farr, aren't you?
VORIK: That's an extremely personal question, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, I'm aware that Vulcans prefer to keep their mating practices very much to themselves. There's almost nothing in the medical database beyond a few observations made by Starfleet doctors over the years. Your symptoms, the chemical imbalance and loss of emotional control, are consistent with those observations. Have you been eating and sleeping normally?
VORIK: I knew there was something wrong. I was hoping it wasn't this.
EMH: I assume this is your first Pon farr? There's nothing to be embarrassed about. It's a normal biological function. I'll do what I can to help you through it, but I'll need a little more information.
VORIK: We do not discuss it.
EMH: I'm afraid you'll have to. You have a severe imbalance in your brain chemistry. If it gets much worse, it could become life threatening. Now I need to know how Vulcans deal with this condition.
VORIK: We go home. Every seven years of our adult life, Vulcans experience an instinctual, irresistible urge to return to the homeworld and take a mate.
EMH: But in your case, being stranded halfway across the galaxy, that's impossible.
VORIK: Yes.
EMH: So then logically, you try to find a mate here. I assume that explains your behaviour toward Lieutenant Torres.
VORIK: I have always had great respect for B'Elanna. I hope she isn't too upset with me.
EMH: With Lieutenant Torres, upset is a relative term. In any case, we're going to have to try to find another way to treat your condition. Let's start with a microcellular scan.
VORIK: No! I don't want medical treatment. I will resolve this myself.
EMH: How do you intend to do that?
VORIK: There are certain meditative techniques. I will be fine if simply left alone. Please, allow me to return to my quarters. Confine me there, if you wish, but allow me to resolve my situation privately.
EMH: Until I have a better idea of how to treat your condition, I'll release you to your quarters. You'll be under confinement and wearing a cortical monitor at all times.
VORIK: Thank you.

[Doctor's office]

(Later, the EMH consults with the resident expert on all things Vulcan.)
EMH: I'm concerned about Ensign Vorik's cortical readings. One returns to normal levels, then another one spikes. It's chaotic. As if the brain's regulatory system had simply shut down. I can't tell if he's making any progress with these meditations. I thought maybe you could suggest other possible treatments.
TUVOK: I cannot.
EMH: Is that because you don't know, or because you don't want to discuss it?
TUVOK: For both of those reasons there is little help that I can offer. It is inappropriate for me to involve myself in Ensign Vorik's personal situation.
EMH: For such an intellectually enlightened race, Vulcans have a remarkably Victorian attitude about sex.
TUVOK: That is a very human judgement, Doctor.
EMH: Then here's a Vulcan one. I fail to see the logic in perpetuating ignorance about a basic biological function.
TUVOK: There is nothing logical about the Pon farr. It is a time when instinct and emotion dominate over reason. It cannot be analysed by the rational mind, nor cured by conventional medicine. Anyone who has experienced it understands that it must simply be followed to its natural resolution.
EMH: Which is what, exactly?
TUVOK: There are three options that I am aware of. Taking a mate, which Ensign Vorik has already attempted. The ritual combat which does not apply to his situation.
EMH: Combat?
TUVOK: An ancient tradition of fighting for one's mate which as I have said, is not relevant here. The third alternative is the intensive meditation he has chosen to try.
EMH: Isn't there anything we can do to help him with that?
TUVOK: I believe that any interference would be unwelcome and counterproductive. You must allow him to face this challenge privately. If he possesses enough discipline to reach a point of psychological resolution, then his chemical imbalance should correct itself.
EMH: The Vulcan brain never ceases to amaze me. Thank you, Lieutenant. You've been a great help.

[Transporter room]

(Torres is a little hyperactive.)
TORRES: Ah, you two are awfully prompt.
PARIS: Impressed?
TORRES: Oh, it'll take a little more work than that to impress me, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: All right. Let me show you our target area.
NEELIX: Shouldn't we wait for Ensign Vorik?
TORRES: He's not coming. This seems to be the most accessible vein of gallicite. We'll beam to the surface, then go down through this passageway until it dead ends in this chamber. Then we'll descend almost fifty metres, almost straight down. Do you see any problem with that, Tom?
PARIS: Well, as long as we go slow and easy, we'll be fine.
TORRES: Good. You're all set, Neelix?
NEELIX: I've got a laser drill, sample cases, geo-spectral analysis kit.
TORRES: In other words, you're ready. Let's go.

[Planet surface]

(They beam down near dressed stone blocks and a stone path with steps.)
TORRES: This way.
NEELIX: Look over here. This must've been the colony.
PARIS: Not more than fifty or sixty years ago. Hardly enough time for these structures to decay so badly.
NEELIX: They must've suffered some kind of disaster. Maybe an earthquake.
TORRES: Well, we'll send down an archaeological team later on. Right now we've got our own work to do.
PARIS: Are we in a rush?
TORRES: I just don't see any point in wasting time. Unless, of course, you want to stall to put off demonstrating your climbing expertise.
PARIS: Grab your gear, and try to keep up.

[Underground]

(They enter down a rope.)
NEELIX: No matter how real a holodeck programme may seem, it just doesn't get your heart pumping like a genuine physical challenge. It's exhilarating.
TORRES: If you're looking for exhilaration.
(They stand on the edge of a cliff.)
NEELIX: It didn't look quite so steep on the sensor map, did it?
TORRES: We're prepared for this. We can handle it. Let's go.
NEELIX: All this Starfleet technology almost takes the fun out of it.
PARIS: If you mean the fun of wondering whether your anchor will hold while you're dangling over a cliff, I think I'll pass. See you below.
(Paris abseils down.)
TORRES: (to Neelix) You go first. I'll follow you.
PARIS: Watch your footing!
TORRES: You're right. My heart is pumping faster.
NEELIX: Wait till we climb back up with a pack full of gallicite.
TORRES: Oh, I'm just getting warmed up.
(Neelix's piton comes free at the top, and he tumbles to the base of the cliff.)
PARIS: No!
(Paris descends rapidly, followed by Torres. She lands heavily on her feet, whereas Neelix had fallen on his backpack.)
PARIS: Are you hurt?
TORRES: You, you almost got us both killed.
NEELIX: I'm sorry. I don't know what happened.
PARIS: Careful. Careful. You might have broken it.
TORRES: You had no business rigging safety equipment when you had no idea what you were doing!
PARIS: Calm down. This wasn't Neelix's fault. I saw him drive the piton and it was solid. It must've malfunctioned. You are hurt.
TORRES: I'm fine, no thanks to you two. I would have been better coming down here alone.
PARIS: Don't you think you're overreacting a little bit?
TORRES: Just drag him to the ship. I'll get the gallicite myself.
NEELIX: We can't leave you down here alone!
PARIS: He's right. Let's contact the ship.
TORRES: You get your hands off of me.
(Torres bites Paris' cheek.)
PARIS: Ow! B'Elanna! What is wrong with you?
TORRES: Nothing. I'm in charge of this mission. I'll finish it.
PARIS: Wait!
NEELIX: Go ahead, Tom. I'll be all right here.
PARIS: The last thing we need is for all three of us to split up. Paris to Voyager. We've got problems down here.
(A short time later.)
PARIS: I haven't been able to contact her. She's either out of communications range

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: Or just not responding.
JANEWAY: Where is she now?
PARIS [OC]: Last location I can

[Underground]

PARIS: Verify is about ten metres below us. I tried to stop her from leaving, Captain, but she got very hostile and bit me.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: She bit you?
PARIS [OC]: And she seemed to be enjoying it, in a Klingon kind of way. She's really not herself.
(Janeway looks at Tuvok, who seems a bit embarrassed.)
JANEWAY: Any luck in getting a transporter lock on them?
(A young lady is at Kim's station.)
LANG: No. They're too far beneath the surface.
JANEWAY: Tom, I'm sending an away team down to you. We'll get Neelix out of there, then go after B'Elanna. Tuvok, you're with Chakotay.
TUVOK: Captain, I'd like to request a short delay. I may have an explanation for Lieutenant Torres's behaviour.

[Vorik's quarters]

(Vorik is trying very hard to meditate when the doorbell chimes.)
VORIK: Go away.
(The doors open.)
VORIK: I said, go away! I'm sorry, sir.
TUVOK: No, I must apologise for the intrusion, particularly at this time.
VORIK: Then you know.
TUVOK: Yes. I regret that I must ask you some uncomfortable questions regarding Lieutenant Torres.
VORIK: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: It is important for me to know specifically what happened between the two of you. Was there any physical contact?
VORIK: Yes.
TUVOK: Please describe your actions.
VORIK: It's hard to remember. I was acting irrationally. I believe I approached her. I, I touched her face. I meant to be gentle, but she tried to move away, and then I was holding her more tightly, both hands on her face like this. It felt very important not to let go. I'm, I'm not certain why.
TUVOK: I believe you were initiating a telepathic mating bond.
VORIK: I didn't know it could happen that way. I wanted to bond with her, that much I remember clearly.
TUVOK: Apparently you've succeeded. Lieutenant Torres has been displaying unusual behaviour, very much like the early stages of Pon farr.
VORIK: How is that possible? She's not Vulcan.
TUVOK: There have been instances of Vulcans mating with members of other races.
VORIK: But she rejected me forcefully.
TUVOK: Even a brief moment of bonding may have been enough to disrupt her self-control, as the Pon farr does in us. In a half-Klingon, the effects may be even more extreme.
VORIK: I have to go to her.
TUVOK: You cannot. Lieutenant Torres is out of contact on the planet.
VORIK: I'll find her. B'Elanna needs me and I need her.
TUVOK: It is a far more sensible strategy to get her safely back to Voyager, and then decide on the proper resolution.
VORIK: The resolution must be that we become mates. It is only logical.
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres has never been a great follower of logic.
VORIK: You think she'll reject me again?
TUVOK: It might be wise to continue your meditative efforts.
VORIK: I'll do my best, sir.

[Underground]

(Chakotay is putting Neelix in a harness.)
TUVOK: It is difficult to estimate how soon her condition will become life threatening.
PARIS: Life threatening? She could die from this?
TUVOK: Yes.
PARIS: And you've gone through it every seven years of your adult life?
TUVOK: You only need to be concerned with Lieutenant Torres' situation.
PARIS: Right. Well, it looks like finding her won't be easy. Scanning range is limited to about twenty metres, and even that's not too reliable.
CHAKOTAY: You said she was going after the gallicite, so we'll do the same and hope it leads us to her.
NEELIX: I'm ready to go, Commander.
(Neelix is hauled up the cliff.)
CHAKOTAY: Let's go.

[Cave]

(There is some light, water dripping and mosses growing. Torres scans the rocks then moves a few to reveal a power cable and a flashing light.)
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Tom. Come here. You've got to see this.
TUVOK: How are you feeling, Lieutenant?
TORRES: Fine. This is an active power system. It must've been built by the colonists.
CHAKOTAY: We'll send somebody down here to study it more closely. Right now we've got to get you back to the ship.
TORRES: No, no. This is my discovery. It's my mission. You don't understand. This is the source of the gallicite readings. These conduits are covered with gallicite plating. It's exactly what we need, and I found it.
TUVOK: Yes, Lieutenant, you've succeeded in your mission. Now you must tend to yourself. You're experiencing a condition known as Pon farr.
TORRES: Pon what?
TUVOK: Your emotional balance has been disrupted. You may not be in control of your more aggressive instincts.
TORRES: I lost my temper for a minute, that's all. Why are you all staring at me like that?
TUVOK: Please, come back with us to the ship.
TORRES: Just leave me alone.
(A figure forward from the rock face, then more. They are armed.)
ISHAN: Who are you? What do you want?
CHAKOTAY: My name is Chakotay. I assure you, we have no hostile intent.
ISHAN: She does.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, please.
TUVOK: She is suffering from a chemical imbalance, which is affecting her behaviour.
ISHAN: An imbalance? Is it contagious?
TUVOK: No. However, she does need our assistance.
CHAKOTAY: We'd be glad to take her and leave your territory.
ISHAN: Not before you tell me why you came here.
CHAKOTAY: We only came to find some gallicite. We thought this planet was uninhabited.
ISHAN: Then why are you carrying weapons?
CHAKOTAY: It's standard procedure for any mission into unfamiliar territory.
ISHAN: Let me see one.
(Chakotay gives Ishan his hand phaser.)
ISHAN: And what is that? Some sort of scanning device?
PARIS: Yes. It's called a tricorder.
ISHAN: But it didn't detect any lifeforms here?
PARIS: No, it didn't.
(Ishan returns the phaser. Something beeps.)
TORRES: What's that?
ISHAN: Seismic alert. That wall is unstable. Be careful.
ALIEN: Watch out.
(The alien grabs B'Elanna, and she attacks him. Tuvok discovers that his phaser does not work, and another alien puts its rifle to his head. Paris grabs B'Elanna's shoulders.)
PARIS: B'Elanna, don't! B'Elanna!
(The ground shakes. Paris falls, and Torres gets the rifle off her attacker, who falls to the ground then disappears. Paris and Torres are alone.)
TORRES: There must be a hidden door, some kind of a passageway.
PARIS: I'm not picking up anything like that. Or any life signs.
TORRES: Then you're using it wrong.
PARIS: Yeah, that must be it. Or else these aliens are generating some kind of interference so we can't detect them. We have to get out of here before they come back.
TORRES: We can't leave Chakotay and Tuvok.
PARIS: If you have any ideas how to find them, I'm listening! We have to get back to the ship and get some help, for them and for you.
TORRES: Why does everybody keep saying there's something wrong with me?
PARIS: I'll try to explain it to you, but we've got to get moving.

[Sickbay]

EMH: There. Your serotonin levels are stabilised for the moment, but I'm concerned about these fluctuations. It's becoming more difficult to compensate.
VORIK: I will increase my efforts to control them, Doctor.
EMH: I'd like you to consider an alternative treatment I've been developing.
VORIK: No. I will deal with this myself.
EMH: Ensign, your life is at risk.
VORIK: You don't understand. How well a Vulcan copes with this experience is a test of his character. I've already humiliated myself and Lieutenant Tuvok by allowing a private matter to become so public.
EMH: Give yourself a little credit. You're doing the best you can under unusually difficult circumstances. If you were back on Vulcan, you'd have your family and friends there to help you.
VORIK: I shouldn't need any help.
EMH: I know that self-sufficiency is very important to a Vulcan, but there is nothing shameful in getting a little guidance every once in a while. I'd like you to consider my alternative, and then you can decide whether or not to try it.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]

EMH: Ensign.
VORIK: I don't understand the purpose of coming here.
EMH: Trust me. Ensign Vorik, I'd like you to meet T'Pera.
(A lady in Vulcan clothes.)
VORIK: Surely you're not suggesting that she become my mate.
EMH: Well, I wouldn't recommend a lifetime commitment, but she might be able to help you with your immediate problem.
VORIK: She's a hologram. She isn't real.
EMH: Then I assume you have the same low regard for me.
VORIK: You're a skilled physician, Doctor, but let me point out the limitations to your own experience with physical matters.
EMH: I believe we're discussing your sexual difficulties at the moment, Ensign. And this holographic mate is the best solution I can think of.
VORIK: She won't be the same as a real mate.
EMH: The difference is all in your mind, which, if I've understood you and Mister Tuvok correctly, is where the Pon farr must ultimately be resolved. Let your mind convince your body that she is exactly what you need her to be. Think of this as an advanced self-healing technique. It was still require considerable mental discipline on your part.
VORIK: There is a certain logic to your suggestion, Doctor. I will try.
EMH: Good. Well, then, I'll leave the two of you alone.

[Tunnels]

TORRES: Tuvok must be wrong about this Pon farr business. It doesn't make any sense.
PARIS: It does explain how you've been acting.
TORRES: I don't see what's so strange.
PARIS: How about starting a fight with a group of armed aliens, shouting at Neelix, giving me this. If I remember my Klingon customs, biting someone on the face means
TORRES: I know what it means. All right, so maybe I do feel something, some kind of instinct. What am I supposed to do about it?
PARIS: When we get back to the ship, the doctor should be able to help. Or there's always Vorik.
TORRES: I am not helping that Vulcan petaQ! The idea of bonding with him, it's ludicrous! What's this?
(A rockfall.)
PARIS: The tremor must've shaken the rocks loose.
TORRES: Well, they're in the way.
PARIS: Hold it! We don't know how stable this tunnel is. An energy blast might bring the rest of it down on our heads.
TORRES: Let go!
PARIS: No. I think I should keep this.
(They struggle for the phaser rifle.)
TORRES: Never pick a fight with a Klingon, Tom.
PARIS: I'm not going to fight with you, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Afraid I'll break your arm? You should be.
PARIS: B'Elanna, stop it! This isn't about the gun. This is about sex. But that's not gonna happen right now.
TORRES: I think it is. See, I have picked up your scent, Tom. I've tasted your blood.
PARIS: No. No. I'm your friend, and I have to watch out for you when your judgement's been impaired. If you let these instincts take over now, you'll hate yourself, and me too for taking advantage of you. I won't do that.
TORRES: Maybe, maybe we should continue separately.
PARIS: No.
TORRES: You don't know how strong, how hard it is to fight this urge.
PARIS: Are you telling me that I'm impossible to resist?
TORRES: I wouldn't go that far.
PARIS: Good. Come on.

[Underground room]

(Light from somewhere above, an artificial hearth, a stone chair and obelisk.)
ISHAN: I want to know about the vessel which brought you here. Your propulsion systems, weapons, sensors, everything. You have an artificial implant in your arm.
TUVOK: Yes. It was necessary to replace the elbow joint after I was injured in a combat simulation.
ISHAN: I also want to know about your medical technology, scientific advances, artificial intelligence.
CHAKOTAY: I'd be glad to tell you all about my people and learn about yours. There's no need to hold us here for interrogation.
ISHAN: You should expect no better treatment after invading Sakari territory.
CHAKOTAY: As I said, we didn't know there was anyone down here.
ISHAN: Yes, so you've said.
TUVOK: Your people have clearly made every effort to avoid detection by outsiders. Is it so difficult to believe that those measures were effective in our case?
ISHAN: If they had been fully effective, you wouldn't have found anything interesting enough to bring you here.
CHAKOTAY: That's something we can help you with.
ISHAN: What?
CHAKOTAY: We can show you how we detected the gallicite, so you can disguise it better. We can also help you eliminate the last traces of the ruins on the surface, so no one else will be curious about them.
ISHAN: You've seen the ruins?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I assume the Sakari once lived there.
ISHAN: Long ago, before I wan born.
TUVOK: What happened?
ISHAN: My people never even knew who the invaders were or why they attacked. It was all over in less than an hour. Some of the colonists were fortunate enough to escape into the mines. We've lived here ever since, where it's safe. If the invaders ever learned of our existence here, they might return.
CHAKOTAY: I can certainly understand your caution, but let us demonstrate our good faith by helping you protect yourselves. Then we'll go and never bother you again.
ISHAN: Agreed. But you will be supervised at all times.

[Cave]

(Another tremor is starting.)
PARIS: We're almost to the next passageway. Can you make it?
TORRES: Not much choice.
(More rocks fall.)
PARIS: It's all right. We'll find a way out.
TORRES: We should use that weapon. It's worth the risk now.
PARIS: I might agree with you if I still had it. It's buried somewhere under all that.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Sorry. Try to stay calm. I know it's hard.
TORRES: You don't know anything. I feel like I'm crawling out of my skin. I need to do something. I can't take this.
(She pushes Paris to the ground and straddles him. He pushes her off.)
TORRES: You've never been hard to get, Tom.
PARIS: Well, I'm making an exception. I can't let you do this.
TORRES: Oh, I'll bet you wish you could. All those invitations to dinner. And on the holodeck, the way you would stare at me when you thought I wasn't looking, and get jealous when I'm with someone else. You can't tell me you're not interested in me.
PARIS: You're right. I can't.
TORRES: Then don't push me away.
PARIS: Oh, believe me, I'd like to, but I know this isn't really you. You've made it clear that you're not interested, and I have to accept that's how you feel, even now.
TORRES: No. No, it isn't. I was, I was just afraid to admit it. You see, I've wanted this for so long.
(She kisses him.)
TORRES: Just let it happen.
(More kisses.)
PARIS: I hope someday you'll say that to me and mean it.
TORRES: You'd let me go insane rather than help me?
PARIS: You know that's not true.
TORRES: You just stay away from me.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

EMH: You called, Ensign? Is there a problem?
VORIK: Not at all.
EMH: You seem much improved.
VORIK: Yes. Your holodeck therapy was very effective. I must compliment you on an innovative solution.
EMH: I'm pleased to hear that. This could be a viable alternative for space-faring Vulcans. When we get back, I'm sure Starfleet medical will
(Vorik gives him a Look.)
EMH: Never hear about your personal experiences from me.
VORIK: Thank you, Doctor. May I return to duty?
EMH: Soon enough, Ensign. I'll need to run a few more cortical scans.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Mister Vorik's biochemical readings are stabilising. They're not back to normal yet, but I believe he's gotten through the worst of it. I'm ready to release him from Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Good work, Doctor. Will this treatment help B'Elanna as well?
EMH: I don't see why not.
JANEWAY: As soon as the away team gets back, I'll send her straight to you.
EMH: I'll get to work designing the half-Klingon version of the programme. There's a copious amount of information in the cultural database about their mating practices. Did you know that fracturing a clavicle on the wedding night is actually considered a blessing on the marriage?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact, I didn't.
EMH: I'm planning to do a comparative study of all these mating rituals. It really is fascinating, from a socio-biological point of view.
JANEWAY: I'm sure B'Elanna will appreciate your efforts, Doctor.

[Cave]

(Torres is curled up in a corner.)
TORRES: Where are we?
PARIS: Still stuck in the cave, I'm afraid.
TORRES: The caves? The gallicite. Where's my tricorder?
PARIS: No. We're not looking for the gallicite anymore. We're trying to get back to the ship, remember?
TORRES: No, I don't.
(The rockfall is broken through from the other side.)
CHAKOTAY: Are you two all right?
PARIS: B'Elanna needs help. We've got to get her out of here.

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Please respond. Still nothing.
PARIS: What's the matter? Why aren't they answering?
CHAKOTAY: There must be some kind of communications problem. I'm sure they'll clear it up soon.
TUVOK: It may not be soon enough. I am concerned about the rapid progression of her symptoms. You must help her now, Mister Paris. If she does not resolve the Pon farr, she will die.
(Chakotay and Tuvok leave them alone.)
PARIS: B'Elanna, I know this is a pretty bizarre situation, probably not what either one of us had in mind, but it's too late to worry about that now.
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: Be quiet.
(She leads him away, then nuzzles his hand and his neck.)
PARIS: So this is the part where you throw heavy objects at me?
TORRES: Maybe later.
PARIS: I'm not sure exactly what I'm supposed to do.
(So he nuzzles her neck and she throws him to the ground.)
TORRES: Well, what are you doing?
PARIS: Enjoying myself?
TORRES: Then show it.
(Paris struggles a little. They roll around then Paris is lifted up.)
VORIK: You are my mate, not his!
TORRES: What are you doing here?
VORIK: I've come to claim you, to fulfil our bond, and if necessary, to face my rival. Lieutenant Tuvok!
TUVOK: Ensign.
VORIK: Sir, I declare Koon-ut-kal-if-fee.
TUVOK: The ritual challenge. He intends to fight to win his mate.
PARIS: You want a fight? You've got one.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on, Tom. There's not going to be any challenge. Are you responsible for the ship being out of contact?
VORIK: It was necessary to disable the communications, transporters and shuttles. No one will keep me from my mate!
TORRES: I am not your mate!
VORIK: We will soon decide that.
TORRES: If anyone is going to smash your arrogant little face in, I will! I take your challenge myself.
TUVOK: She has the right to choose her own defender, even herself.
CHAKOTAY: Just hold on. Neither of you are thinking straight right now.
TUVOK: They are following their instincts, and I suggest we allow them to do so.
CHAKOTAY: You mean let them fight?
TUVOK: It is logical. Both must resolve their Pon farr before it kills them. We cannot wait to hear from Voyager.
PARIS: They'll tear each other to pieces.
TUVOK: The risk of injury seems preferable to the certainty of dying from a chemical imbalance. Commander, I see no alternative but to follow Vulcan tradition.
CHAKOTAY: All right.
TUVOK: Begin.
(They are evenly matched. Torres avoids a neck pinch and they struggle for a large branch she picks up. They end up rolling around on the ground, trading punches, until Vorik cannot get up, and Torres is completely disoriented. She falls into Paris' arms.)
PARIS: It's over, isn't it?
TUVOK: The blood fever has been purged. They will both recover.

Captain's log, stardate 50541.6. We're following through with Chakotay's offer to help the Sakari improve their camouflage and they've agreed to supply us with a generous quantity of gallicite.

[Turbolift]

(Torres is already in the turbolift when the doors open for Paris.)
PARIS: Deck two. So, looks like you're feeling better. You back on duty?
TORRES: Yes. Yes, I'm fine. Thanks. The refit is going well. We should have new warp coils by the end of the week.
PARIS: Oh, good. Glad to hear it. Computer, halt turbolift. Look, this is ridiculous. We are going to be together on this ship for a long time.
TORRES: You're right. We have to pretend that the whole mission didn't happen.
PARIS: But something did happen, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Look, Tom, I really appreciate what you did, what you were willing to do for me. But as far as I'm concerned, I was under the influence of some weird Vulcan chemical imbalance, and, and whatever I did, whatever I said, it wasn't me.
PARIS: Yeah, I know. You're afraid that your big, scary Klingon side might have been showing. Well, I saw it up close, and you know, it wasn't so terrible. In fact, I wouldn't mind seeing it again someday. Computer, resume.
TORRES: Careful what you wish for, Lieutenant.

[Planet surface]

JANEWAY: Your call sounded urgent.
CHAKOTAY: I think there's something you should see, Captain. We found this as we were clearing away the ruins. Undoubtedly, one of the invaders who destroyed this colony.
(A skeleton with cybernetic skull and body implants.)
JANEWAY: The Borg!


S3 E17
Unity
Stardate: 50614.2
Original Airdate: February 12, 1997

First Officer's log, stardate 50614.2. Ensign Kaplan and I are returning to Voyager after completing a scouting mission in the Nekrit Expanse.
[Shuttlecraft]

(Kaplan is a female officer.)
KAPLAN: The nebula's completely scrambling our navigational readings. I still can't get a fix on our position.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying we're lost, Ensign?
KAPLAN: That depends what you mean by lost, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Lost as in you can't get a fix on our position.
KAPLAN: I'm sorry, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Try hailing Voyager again.
KAPLAN: No response. We must still be out of comm. range.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll just have to navigate the old-fashioned way. Engage optical scanners.
KAPLAN: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up an asteroid field at coordinates one one three mark seven. Record it.
KAPLAN: Er, sir. That asteroid field? It's the same one we passed two hours ago.
CHAKOTAY: Great. We're not only lost, we're flying in circles.
(Beeping.)
KAPLAN: It's a Federation hailing beacon, originating bearing three oh nine mark four. It's Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Well, at least someone knows where we are.
KAPLAN: Setting a course.
(They arrive in orbit of a planet.)
CHAKOTAY: The signal's coming from the planet surface.
KAPLAN: Is it possible Voyager's landed?
CHAKOTAY: Sensor readings are sketchy. I'm detecting about eighty thousand humanoid life forms on the western continent, some rudimentary structures and technology, but no energy signature big enough to be a starship.
KAPLAN: I'm getting another hail. The signal's very weak, and it's definitely not being sent by Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Try adjusting the bandwidth.
RILEY [OC]: Calling approaching Federation vessel. We need your help urgently.
CHAKOTAY: This is Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. Please identify yourself.
RILEY [OC]: I'm not reading you. Federation vessel, please respond.
KAPLAN: We lost them, sir.
CHAKOTAY: They've identified us as a Federation ship.
KAPLAN: Who would know that?
CHAKOTAY: Whoever they are, they're asking for our help. Launch a message buoy letting Voyager know we've landed in response to a distress call.

[Settlement]

(Night. Fires burn in makeshift braziers.)
KAPLAN: This place looks like a war zone.
CHAKOTAY: I can't pinpoint the source of the transmission.
(Four armed figures step out from the metal structures.)
KAPLAN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. We're responding to a distress call. We're looking for whoever it was who asked for our help.
KAPLAN: Commander!
(One figure raises his weapon, and Kaplan pushes Chakotay aside. Everyone takes cover and starts shooting. Kaplan gets hit, then Chakotay is jumped from behind. They struggle, and Chakotay knocks out his attacker. One person carefully aims his weapon and stuns Chakotay, but is then driven off by a new group arriving.)
ATTACKER: Come on.
ORUM: Take him inside.
(Chakotay is dragged away, and his hand phaser retrieved.)

[Bunker]

(Chakotay wakes up face down on a bed. He has nasty bruises on the right side of his forehead. A woman with long blonde hair speaks.)
RILEY: I'd lie still if I were you. You've got a nasty head injury.
CHAKOTAY: You're human.
RILEY: My name's Riley Frazier. What's yours, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Why did you attack us?
RILEY: Those weren't my people. I'm the one who sent the distress call. We rescued you.
CHAKOTAY: What did you do with Kaplan?
RILEY: Your Ensign? She didn't make it. I'm sorry.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to get back to my shuttle.
RILEY: Your shuttle isn't there any more. The people who attacked you have already pulled it apart. Relax, Commander. I'm here to help you.
CHAKOTAY: How did
RILEY: How did I get here? I could ask you the same question. I was pretty surprised when I picked up a Federation ship out there. Not that I wasn't happy about it.
CHAKOTAY: It's a long story. Why don't you go first.
RILEY: Seven or eight years ago, I was working as a science officer on a vessel in the Bolian Sector. We were attacked without warning by aliens. They overpowered us in minutes and those of us who survived were put in some kind of stasis. The next thing we knew, we were here on this planet. It didn't take too many hours of stargazing to realise we weren't in the Alpha Quadrant any longer.
CHAKOTAY: There are other humans here?
RILEY: Three that I know of, besides me. What was left of my crew. Along with some Klingons, Cardassians, Romulans, and dozens of other species I'd never seen before.
CHAKOTAY: And the ones who put you in stasis?
RILEY: I don't know. They must have had some kind of colony here at some time because of the ruined buildings and equipment they left scattered around. We've never seen them again. Everyone here has pretty much the same story. They were just grabbed from wherever they happened to be, and dumped.
CHAKOTAY: Why did those people kill Kaplan? We were no threat to them.
RILEY: There are dozens of different races on this planet, all of whom were brought here against their will. Many of them are suspicious of other species. It's not exactly a United Federation around here, if you know what I mean.
CHAKOTAY: So those kind of attacks, they go on all the time?
RILEY: Resources are pretty limited. It didn't take long for the fighting to start. At first a group of Klingons attacked the Cardassians, then the Farn raided the Parein. Eventually things just got out of hand, and now it's anarchy. But some of us, a few hundred or so, we've tried to make the best of it. We've established a cooperative, sharing work and whatever provisions we have.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to contact my ship.
RILEY: The raiders destroyed the communications array. It'll take days to fix it.
CHAKOTAY: I can help you.
RILEY: Our medic examined you. You suffered serious neural trauma. You're staying put. And that's an order, Commander.

Captain's log, stardate 50622.4. While Commander Chakotay scouts for a faster route through the Nekrit Expanse, we are continuing our month-long journey through this sparsely populated region.

[Bridge]

PARIS: You know, they ought to rename this region the Negative Expanse. We haven't run across anything interesting for days.
JANEWAY: If you're bored, Mister Paris, I'm sure I can find something else for you to do. The warp plasma filters are due for a thorough cleaning.
PARIS: Now that you mention it, Captain, I find this region of space a real navigational challenge.
TUVOK: I believe I may have found something else to pique Mister Paris's interest, Captain. It's an unidentified ship on long range sensors.
JANEWAY: What sort of ship?
TUVOK: Sensor readings are very limited, but the vessel appears to be stopped directly in our current flightpath.
JANEWAY: Harry, send a standard greeting.
KIM: Aye, Captain. They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Try retransmitting the hail on wideband subspace.
KIM: Still no response.
TUVOK: We are entering visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(The faint image of a large dark cube can just be made out against the black of space.)
PARIS: The Borg.
JANEWAY: Red Alert! All stop, shields to maximum, standby all weapons. Tuvok, are they scanning us?
TUVOK: Curious. None of the Borg systems appears to be operational.
KIM: He's right, they're adrift.
PARIS: Maybe they're trying to lull us into a false sense of security.
TUVOK: That would not be consistent with typical Borg tactics.
JANEWAY: I want to try a multiphasic scan. Tom, stand by to get us out of here in case they react.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Proceed, Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm not picking up any active energy signatures. And no life signs.
PARIS: Well, that's a relief.
TUVOK: Perhaps. However, we should avoid complacency. The Borg are known to retrieve their damaged technology. It is quite possible we will encounter additional Borg vessels which are fully manned and powered.
JANEWAY: That's exactly why we're going to board that ship.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: This is a rare opportunity to learn as much as we can about Borg technology.
TORRES: I might be able to get one of their data nodes running and find out what disabled their ship.
JANEWAY: If we're lucky, we may find a weakness we can use against them, in case we run into one of their fully manned and powered ships. Tuvok, assemble an away team. Tom.
PARIS: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us into transporter range.

[Bunker]

RILEY: We grow all our own food in the cooperative garden.
CHAKOTAY: It's delicious.
RILEY: Sorry there's no meat.
CHAKOTAY: No problem. I'm a vegetarian.
RILEY: Really? I have reoccurring dreams about my mother's famous Texas barbeque. So, your journey home. How much longer do you expect it will take you?
CHAKOTAY: About sixty seven years, provided we don't find a wormhole or some other faster way of getting back.
RILEY: Haven't you ever thought about finding some nice M-class planet and putting down roots?
CHAKOTAY: We'd be missing an incredible opportunity to explore unknown space. Besides, we've made a good life for ourselves on Voyager. I'm sure Captain Janeway would be amenable to take as many of your people with us as we can accommodate.
RILEY: Take us with you?
CHAKOTAY: I assumed that's why you sent the distress call.
RILEY: You misunderstood. We want to stay.
CHAKOTAY: But you were brought here against your will. You just said how dangerous it is.
RILEY: For better or worse, this place has become our home. The people in the cooperative, they're like my ancestors. Texas homesteaders.
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that, but
RILEY: We have a deep connection to one another that I've never felt before. Not even with members of my own family. I guess it's because of what we've all gone through together.
CHAKOTAY: What about those unfriendly neighbours of yours?
RILEY: We're been able to bring a few of them into our group, but you're right, they're a problem. That's why we want your help. Security upgrades, medical supplies, maybe some weapons. We're creating a society here, one that's based on tolerance, shared responsibility and mutual respect that people like you and I were raised to believe in. We're not about to give it up because it's difficult. I'd better get back to work on the communications array.
CHAKOTAY: I'll come with you.
RILEY: No. You're still in no shape to fight if we're attacked. I'll be back to check on you soon.

[Borg Cube]

TORRES: It's like a ghost ship.
TUVOK: Allowing yourself to become apprehensive can only be counterproductive, Lieutenant.
TORRES: I'm not being apprehensive, Tuvok, I'm just nervous as hell. This is one of the access nodes. If we can get it operational I should be able to tap into the main data systems. Tuvok, there should be a compatible micropower conduit somewhere in that module. Connect it to this generator.
(Tuvok moves some hoses apart and a Borg falls forward.)
TUVOK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: It's dead.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: As far as we can tell, all activity on the Borg ship ceased abruptly five years ago.
TORRES: Our scans have detected eleven hundred corpses.
TUVOK: We located a breached section of the vessel where the spatial vacuum preserved several of the bodies perfectly.
TORRES: We brought one aboard. We're hoping that an autopsy might give us some clue as to what killed them.
JANEWAY: The question is, why have the Borg left one of their ships and all it's technology adrift in space for anyone to find?
TUVOK: It is possible that the deactivation of the ship and it's systems severed the link with the rest of the Collective.
KIM: But what caused the shut-down in the first place?
TORRES: It could have been some kind of natural disaster, or
KIM: Or what?
TORRES: Maybe the Borg were defeated by an enemy even more powerful than they are.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, continue scanning for any Borg vessels in the vicinity, as well as any other ships that might be more powerful. B'Elanna, you and the Doctor get started on that autopsy. In the meantime, I think it would be a good idea to rendezvous with Commander Chakotay a little ahead of schedule, and let him know we've run into some old friends.

[Bunker]

(Chakotay tries operating the door controls, then knocks on the door itself.)
CHAKOTAY: Hello? Anybody there? Riley?
(He returns to the controls and finally hits the right ones. Sunlight streams in.)

[Settlement]

(There are people from many races here, all bald, some missing forearms. Chakotay sees a small group on the far side. One man with a Borg eye implant and cyborg forearm is working on another person with a metal plate at the back of their skull. That person turns around.)
CHAKOTAY: Riley? What are you? Are you Borg?
RILEY: We were Borg.
CHAKOTAY: You mean you weren't just kidnapped. You were assimilated by the Collective.
RILEY: At Wolf 359. I was a science officer aboard the Roosevelt. Five years ago, our ship was damaged by an electrokinetic storm. The next thing we knew, our link to the Collective was severed. We were free! We could think for ourselves again, remember our names, where we'd come from.
ORUM: It was like waking up from a long nightmare. We took what we thought we could use and transported ourselves here.
RILEY: Everything was new again. The sounds of our own voices, forgotten memories, the taste of food.
ORUM: Our original skin pigmentation began to come back. Many of us were able to remove our Borg appendages.
RILEY: I was even lucky enough to get a prosthetic arm Orum created using Borg replication equipment. In spite of how little we had it was a joyous, hopeful time.
CHAKOTAY: And then?
RILEY: After the euphoria wore off, people started looking around and found they were living among other cultures they didn't understand, or worse, species they'd been taught to hate. They turned against one another. Things became chaotic.
ORUM: The fighting, the raids.
RILEY: But we're not all like that. Everything I told you about forming a cooperative, building a new society, I meant it.
ORUM: Riley is telling the truth, Commander Chakotay. Look at me. I was Romulan. I was taught to hate humans, the Federation. But Riley and I are friends now. I'm part of the cooperative.
RILEY: Orum's our medic. He's the one who examined you.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't you tell me all this in the first place?
RILEY: I know how people feel about the Borg, and they're right. We did terrible things.
CHAKOTAY: You'd been assimilated. You weren't in control of your actions.
RILEY: Then you'll still help us?
(Chakotay's eyes roll back, and he staggers. Orum catches him.)
ORUM: I think right now it's Commander Chakotay who needs our help.

Captain's log, supplemental. We've detected a message buoy launched from Chakotay's shuttle and are heading toward it. The autopsy of the Borg corpse is underway.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I must say, there's nothing like the vacuum of space for preserving a handsome corpse. Subject's abdominal organs are unremarkable. Pulmonary system exhibits evidence of extensive alveolar damage, as well as a slight swelling consistent with exposure to space. Ah, in addition there are signs of severe cardiac depolarisation.
KES: Sounds like he was electrocuted.
EMH: Very good, Kes.
TORRES: That would support our theory about what happened aboard their ship. We think that their main power conduits were overloaded by a massive electromechanical discharge.
EMH: Hmm. This is intriguing.
TORRES: What do you think that is?
EMH: It may be some kind of axonal amplifier. Kes, hand me a cortical probe.
(The EMH activates the probe and pokes it into the implant. The Borg activates and sits up.)
TORRES: Shut it down!
(The EMH uses the probe again.)
TORRES: What the hell happened?
KES: Is it still alive?
EMH: Of course not. Apparently, I inadvertently activated a backup neuroelectric power cell. The response was purely autonomic. There's no reason for concern.
TORRES: I wouldn't be so sure about that.
EMH: What do you mean?
TORRES: That autonomic response caused this drone to reset back to it's original programming. If the rest of those corpses somehow reactivate, we have a major problem on our hands.

[Bunker]

ORUM: I'm afraid he's getting worse.
RILEY: There must be something we can do for him.
ORUM: You know better than anyone how limited our medical resources are. As far as I'm concerned, there is only one option.
RILEY: Would it be safe?
CHAKOTAY: Would what be safe?
ORUM: As I'm sure you're aware, the Borg collective consciousness is extremely powerful. It allowed us to transfer information instantaneously, to think with one mind. But what you may not be aware of is the link also has inherent medical applications.
CHAKOTAY: Medical applications?
ORUM: We were connected by a continuous neuroelectrical field that was capable of regenerating the damaged components of an injured Borg.
RILEY: Think of it as a subspace transfusion, only instead of one person giving blood there are hundreds, perhaps thousands of donors simultaneously transmitting neuroelectric energy to whoever needed it.
ORUM: This process was often successful in healing both organic and inorganic body parts.
CHAKOTAY: This is all very fascinating, but I don't see how it helps me.
RILEY: We still have Borg neural processors implanted in our nervous systems. Removing them would have killed us.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
RILEY: Using a portable neural transponder we have the ability to re-link our brain patterns.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said the link was severed.
RILEY: It was.
ORUM: But we can reinitiate it among a small group for a short time. We could generate a neuroelectric field that could heal your injuries.
CHAKOTAY: You want to hook up my mind to some Borg collective!
RILEY: No, that's not it at all.
ORUM: We'd be in complete control. You'd simply be linked for a limited period of time to Riley, me, and a few of the others in our group willing to help you.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not letting anyone implant some neural processor in my brain.
ORUM: That wouldn't be necessary. I'd simply attach a small neural transceiver to the base of your skull. We'd initiate the link and your transceiver could be removed as soon as the procedure was over. I assure you, other than repairing neural tissue, there would be no lasting effects.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks, but I don't think so.
RILEY: I can see why you're sceptical. I would be too. Look around you. Orum and I, all the others, we're individuals. We have distinct personalities. We're not about to turn you into some kind of automaton.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take my chances and wait for Voyager.
ORUM: I'm afraid that help may come too late, Commander. If we don't do something to slow the neural degradation immediately, you will die.
(Later, a small group has gathered at Chakotay's bedside.)
RILEY: Chakotay, you have to make a decision.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of Voyager?
RILEY: No. I can't change who we are. I wasn't truthful with you before and I'm sorry. But please, believe me when I tell you we only want to help you. Orum will take every precaution. Please, at least let us try and save you.
CHAKOTAY: It's either that or the Happy Hunting Grounds, huh?
RILEY: Okay, then?
ORUM: This is the neurotransceiver.
(He places the small device at the back of Chakotay's head.)
RILEY: Don't be afraid, Chakotay. We're here to help you.
COOPERATIVE [OC]: Open your mind to our thoughts and concentrate on getting well. Hear our voices, open your mind to our thoughts. Our collective strength can heal you. You're safe with us. Feel the connection. We're with you. See who we are. Know us. You are not alone. Our strength is your strength. We can overcome your pain. We welcome you into our thoughts. There's nothing to fear, we won't let you die. We're all one circle, no beginning, no end.
(Chakotay sees some of Riley's memories. An attacking Cube, horses running free on a ranch, bluebonnets, her grandfather, the battle of Wolf 359, the Klingon homeworld. Much later -)
RILEY: How do you feel? Don't worry, it's gone. It looks like the treatment worked. Orum says the degraded tissue has shown marked improvement.
CHAKOTAY: It was incredible.
RILEY: I know.
CHAKOTAY: I heard all of you, your thoughts inside my head, as if they were my thoughts. And I could see myself through your eyes.
RILEY: Then you must have caught me staring.
CHAKOTAY: I saw faces, planets. What were they?
RILEY: Images from the minds of the people who linked with you. Memories of their families, their homes.
CHAKOTAY: I know things about all of them, about you. You like bluebonnets.
RILEY: My favourite flower.
CHAKOTAY: You used to pick them back home in Texas with a man who carried a walking stick.
RILEY: My grandfather.
CHAKOTAY: I know so much about you.
RILEY: We shared a very rare experience.
(Riley strokes her own cheek.)
CHAKOTAY: I felt that.
RILEY: What about this?
(She strokes her inner arm.)
RILEY: It's a residual effect from the link.
CHAKOTAY: How long will it last?
RILEY: An hour, maybe two. Long enough. [OC] Can you still here what I'm thinking?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
RILEY [OC]: Then you know I want to be closer to you. I want us to know everything about each other. I want you to feel everything I feel.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: According to the buoy, Commander Chakotay and Ensign Kaplan landed on the surface in response to a distress call three days ago.
JANEWAY: Can you locate the shuttle?
TUVOK: There's no sign of it anywhere on the planet.
JANEWAY: What about their comm. badges?
KIM: I'm only picking up one signal. It's in a heavily populated region. The signal's very weak.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Commander Chakotay, do you read? Ensign Kaplan, this is Captain Janeway. Come in.
KIM: Electrodynamic turbulence from the nebula's interfering with transmission. It's going to take me a while to clear it up.

[Settlement]

(After the lovemaking, Chakotay is mending the communications array.)
CHAKOTAY: Hand me that hyperspanner. There, that should at least get the short range transmitters operational. Now, if we can get the signal amplifiers online.
RILEY: I never would have figured you to be quite so handy with a circuitry panel.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I guess you haven't learned everything about me, have you.
ORUM: Commander, I just wanted to say how grateful to you we all are.
CHAKOTAY: You're the ones who saved my life.
ORUM: But you've added so much to the cooperative. A renewed sense of hope, an infusion of energy. You have no idea how invigorating it was to have a new mind in the link, even if it was only for a short time. There have been so few of us for so long, I. Well, I'll let you two get back to work.
CHAKOTAY: I was so resistant to being linked. Now I'm almost sorry it's over.
RILEY: I know.
CHAKOTAY: Last night when we were still connected, I realised what it is you really want from us. It's more than just supplies and security upgrades.
RILEY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: It's a pretty radical concept.
RILEY: Sometimes radical problems require radical solutions.
ORUM: Riley! Commander Chakotay! We've detected a ship in orbit. It must be Voyager.
RILEY: I hope you'll at least discuss our idea with your Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you tell her about it yourself?

[Briefing room]

RILEY: We've given it a great deal of thought, and we believe the solution to our problem is to re-establish the neural link among all the former Borg living on the planet.
JANEWAY: You can't be serious.
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds extreme, Captain, but I think you should hear her out.
JANEWAY: All right.
RILEY: If you think about it, Captain, when we were linked we had no ethnic conflict. There was no crime, no hunger, no health problems. We lived as one harmonious family.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, Doctor Frazier, you were one harmonious family bent on the violent assimilation of innocent cultures.
RILEY: But we're not Borg anymore, and we've learnt from our past. All we want to do is take the one good thing that existed in the midst of all that horror, our unique ability to cooperate and problem solve, and use it to create a safe and productive community.
JANEWAY: Tell me how, exactly.
RILEY: The neurotransponder we've built is only powerful enough to link a small group of people, like the one that healed Chakotay's wounds. In any case, the effect is only temporary. In order to re-connect the entire population permanently we'd need a much bigger neuroelectric field generator.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we don't have anything like that.
RILEY: But the Borg Cube does.
CHAKOTAY: What they're asking us to do is reactivate that ship's neuroelectric generator and redirect it toward the planet.
JANEWAY: They want us to reactivate a Borg ship?
RILEY: Not the whole ship, just the generator. And it only needs to be operational for a few minutes in order to reactivate the link.
JANEWAY: There's no telling what would happen if we turned on one of those generators, even for an instant. For all we know it would attract other Borg vessels.
RILEY: Captain, I can assure you we'd take every precaution.
JANEWAY: Doctor Frazier, I admire your tenacity, I respect your courage. I'll give you medical supplies, I'll assist you with upgrading your security, I'll even take some of you with us if you want to come, but, as to what you're proposing, I have to tell you I'm extremely sceptical. In fairness however, I will give it some further thought.
RILEY: Thank you.
(Riley leaves with a security guard.)
JANEWAY: What do you think?
CHAKOTAY: If you're asking me whether or not she's sincere, I have to say yes.
JANEWAY: You got to know them very well.
CHAKOTAY: That's an understatement. I heard their thoughts, felt their feelings, saw through their eyes.
JANEWAY: And in all the time you were linked you never sensed anything negative? No hidden agenda, no destructive intent?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: Bottom line. Do you think we should do what they're asking?
CHAKOTAY: I really care about what happens to these people, so in my heart I'd like to do everything we can to help them. But if I were sitting in your chair, I'd have to take other considerations into account.
JANEWAY: Not only would it mean imposing a choice on thousands of people who had no voice in the decision, but it would also be taking a terrible risk. Helping to create a new collective. Who knows what the repercussions might be?
CHAKOTAY: I'll let Riley know.

[Settlement]

(Other crew are also on the planet.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid her decision was final.
RILEY: I wish it weren't, but I expected as much.
CHAKOTAY: What about the raiders? How long do you think you can hold out against them?
RILEY: Well, we'll just have to do the best we can. Who knows. Maybe we'll find some other way to get to the cube and reinitiate the link.
CHAKOTAY: Come with us.
RILEY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We could replicate some Texas Barbeque. I'm sure it won't compare to your mothers, but I think
RILEY: Don't think it's not tempting, but my place is here. I know you understand.
CHAKOTAY: I've never understood anyone better in my life.
NEELIX: Well, we're finished laying in the supplies.
RILEY: Thank you, Neelix.
TORRES: We'd better get going.

[Shuttlecraft]

TORRES: Are you okay? What you need is a good thrashing on the hoverball court to take your mind off things.
CHAKOTAY: You're on.
TORRES: Good. I'll reserve some holodeck time as soon as we're back.
COOPERATIVE [OC]: Chakotay, can you hear us?
CHAKOTAY: Did you say something?
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: Are you getting a comm. transmission?
TORRES: No. Why?
CHAKOTAY: It must have been my imagination.
TORRES: You're sure you're okay?
CHAKOTAY: I'm fine.
COOPERATIVE [OC]: Chakotay, we need your help.
TORRES: Chakotay?
COOPERATIVE [OC]: We need your help.
TORRES: I'm going to tell the Doctor he needs to take a look at you as soon as we're back. Torres to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Don't do that.
(Chakotay points a phaser at Torres.)
TORRES: Chakotay, give me the phaser.
(He shoots her.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, Commander Chakotay's shuttle has changed course.
JANEWAY: Try hailing them.
KIM: No response.
TUVOK: They are increasing speed to maximum impulse.
JANEWAY: Tom, lay in a pursuit course. Tell Neelix we'll rendezvous with his shuttle later.

[Shuttlecraft]

COOPERATIVE [OC]: Chakotay, transport to module forty seven omega.

[Bunker]

COOPERATIVE [OC]: The bunker is under attack. Forty seven omega, section nine. Mark coordinates. We are under attack. Nine alpha alpha. We must hurry. The bunker is under attack. Forty seven omega, section nine. Mark coordinates. We are under attack.
(Their enemies are battering at the bunker door.)

[Borg Cube]

(Chakotay beams aboard the Cube.)
COOPERATIVE [OC]: Proceed to interlink console three beta six. Hear our thoughts. Our thoughts are one. Interlink three beta six. Proceed to interlink console three beta six. Hear our thoughts.
(Chakotay is not alone.)
TUVOK [OC]: Check this area out. This way.
COOPERATIVE [OC]: Lower right panel. Attach power conduit one six six. Hurry. Pathway pi two. We are under attack. Pathway pi two. Activate the neuroelectric generator. Quickly. Power serving mechanism. Activate the generator. Help us. We must activate the neuroelectric generator now. Chakotay. We need your help. Losing time.
TUVOK: Commander, take your hand away from that console or I will be forced to fire.
COOPERATIVE [OC]: You must not let them stop you. You must do this.
(Chakotay shoots at Tuvok, Kim returns fire and hits him.)
COOPERATIVE [OC]: You must move power circuit mechanism alpha to position one.
(Chakotay does it before he passes out. The Cube lights up.)

[Settlement]

COOPERATIVE [OC]: Hear our voices. We welcome you into our thoughts. Feel the connection.
(The attack stops.)

[Borg Cube]

(Borg reactivate.)
TUVOK: Mister Kim.
KIM: Voyager, Emergency beam-out!

[Bridge]

PARIS: Chakotay, B'Elanna and the away team are all back, and we've tractored in the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Take us out of here slowly.
PARIS: Captain, the Borg ship is powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Mister McKenzie, full power to the shields. Arm all phaser banks and prepare to fire.
KIM: Captain, the Borg ship has initiated a self-destruct sequence. It'll go in three seconds.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
(The Cube goes KaBOOM!)
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: Shields are holding. No injuries or hull damage.
PARIS: What the hell happened back there?
KIM: Audio transmission, Captain, from the planet surface.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
COOPERATIVE [OC]: We are the new cooperative. We have destroyed the Borg ship. We regret that we forced Commander Chakotay to assist us but it was necessary for our survival. His link with the cooperative has now been severed. Our lasting gratitude.

[Sickbay]

EMH: His neuropeptide levels have returned to normal.
JANEWAY: And there are no residual traces of the link?
EMH: None.
JANEWAY: How were they able to re-establish a connection?
EMH: My best guess is that the residual neuropeptides heightened his telepathic receptivity.
JANEWAY: I thought their limited equipment made it impossible to form the link over great distances?
TUVOK: Apparently, once they repaired the communications array, they were able to magnify the signal from their neurotransponder.
JANEWAY: Would you two please excuse us?
(The EMH and Tuvok leave.)
CHAKOTAY: I don't know what to say except I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Based on what the Doctor's told us it's clear you were acting against your will.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. But somehow that doesn't make me feel any better. I helped them repair the communications array, and I told you they were sincere.
JANEWAY: You know, Chakotay, that's a part of who you are. Given everything you believe in, I don't see how you could have behaved differently.
CHAKOTAY: But I couldn't have been more wrong about them, could I?
JANEWAY: I don't know. I'm not saying I'm happy about what happened, but so far they haven't acted like typical Borg. They saved us from that Cube, and they let you go.
CHAKOTAY: But they didn't hesitate to impose their collective will on me when it served their interests, did they?
JANEWAY: No, they didn't.
CHAKOTAY: I wonder how long their ideals will last in the face of that kind of power.


S3 E18
Darkling
Stardate: 50693.2
Original Airdate: 19 February, 1997

Captain's log, stardate 50693.2. We've been in orbit above an outpost of the Mikhal Travellers. This loosely governed race of explorers has extensive knowledge of the territory ahead of us, which they are willing to share.
[Nakahn's Lodge]

(Janeway is sitting at a table in a tavern.)
NAKAHN: I landed my ship on the nearest of those twenty one moons. My navigator and I disembarked to start repairs. Damage was extensive. More than we'd anticipated. The hours past, the air grew cold, and with our weapons we started a fire to keep warm. Later, in the night, we awoke with a shudder. The ground was shaking. A moon quake. What could have been worse? We leapt into the ship, hoping the tremor would pass, but it was no tremor and it did not pass. For it was no moon we had landed on.
JANEWAY: What was it?
NAKAHN: A creature. A living being so massive it generated it's own gravitational field. So immense it supported it's own ecosystem.
KES: Captain.
NAKAHN: How long had it been lying there, dormant, slumbering, until wakened by our fire. Years? Centuries?
ZAHIR: Perhaps even millennia?
NAKAHN: Perhaps.
KES: Zahir is the pilot I've been working with on the medical supply transfer.
JANEWAY: A pleasure.
ZAHIR: Returned. Curious, I was just visiting the system you spoke of only a few months ago. My ship's sensors picked up no such monster.
NAKAHN: Perhaps your sensors were faulty, or too busy gazing at your own reflection to bother looking out the window.
ZAHIR: Our guests are offering us supplies we need. In exchange we Travellers are giving them a look at what lies ahead of them. We should keep that view as clear as possible.
NAKAHN: This is my Lodge. I say what I want. And you can go elsewhere.
ZAHIR: I've journeyed to the corners of known space and beyond. I've earned the right to come and go as I please, where and when and how I please. Do you challenge that right?
NAKAHN: No.
(Nakahn leaves the table.) 
ZAHIR: Forgive my display, Captain, but my people consider outposts such as this to be necessary evils. Places to refuel, repair, exchange information and leave as quickly as possible. If I've observed anything working with Kes, it's her great tolerance. A quality you all seem to share. I regret not being able to demonstrate the same.
JANEWAY: There's no need to apologise for anything. Our time here has been very well spent, although I could use your help in sifting through that last colourful saga.
ZAHIR: Moon sized creature or not, the asteroids in that particular system are rich in vorilium.
JANEWAY: That might be worth a short detour. Engineering is usually short on vorilium. Thank you, Zahir.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

GANDHI: Men and women should refrain from enjoying each other. By that I mean to say, even their mutual glances must be free of all suggestion of carnality.
LORD BYRON: Free of passion? One might just as well be free of humanity. Do you not agree?
NEELIX: I, I think you both make valid points.
LORD BYRON: One can pursue one's creative urges, spiritual urges and physical urges. All have a place in a well lived life.
EMH: Thank you, Lord Byron. A classic romantic early nineteenth century argument.
NEELIX: Yes, it seems quite fascinating to see
GANDHI: Classic or no, he is woefully misguided. Passion is meant for procreation. Anything further is contrary to divine intention.
LORD BYRON: Really? It is said the angels themselves take pleasure in their bodies of light.
GANDHI: And you should take a cold bath. In such cases, it is the finest preventative.
EMH: I'll keep that in mind.
(They move away.)
KES: Hello, Doctor.
EMH: Oh, hello, Kes.
KES: Doctor, what's happening in here?
EMH: My personality improvement project. I've been interviewing the historical personality files in our database. Socrates, da Vinci, Lord Byron, T'Pau of Vulcan, Madame Curie, dozen of the greats. Then I select the character elements I find admirable, and merge them into my own programme.
KES: What are you hoping to gain?
EMH: An improved bedside manner, a fresh perspective on diagnoses, more patience with my patients. I could have used your assistance on this project, had you not been otherwise occupied on the planet these last few days.
KES: I'm sorry, Doctor, but things are going extremely well. The Mikhal Travellers are intriguing. They've been to so many places, done such amazing things.
EMH: One might make the same observation about you, Kes, or any member of the Voyager crew.
KES: Maybe it's how they do it that's so impressive. Their ships are small, only a pilot and a navigator. Sometimes they just pick a direction and go. You should come down to the planet, Doctor. I want you to meet Zahir.
EMH: And who might that be?
KES: I've been working with him on the transport of our medical supplies. He's unique.
EMH: Is he? In my opinion, you've become far to infatuated with these Travellers. From the away team reports they seem afflicted with terminal wanderlust. Risk taking thrill seekers with no responsibility to the ideals of exploration. In short, bad news.
KES: Not Zahir. He's more than that.
EMH: I think I'm detecting a reaction to your recent break-up with Mister Neelix. The Mahatma would recommend a cold bath. Simplistic, but no doubt effective.

[Sickbay]

EMH: In my preparatory report to the away team, I recall mentioning to you that Klingons lacked an enzyme for metabolising this planet's vegetation. Have you been naughty?
TORRES: I had one small salad.
EMH: So impetuous. Any sharp pains?
TORRES: No.
EMH: Heart burn?
TORRES: I guess so.
EMH: There's nothing like a heart that burns.
TORRES: What?
EMH: Your pulse is lovely. Ah ha. Mmm. Does that feel good?
TORRES: Doctor, unless you want me to knock you into the middle of the next millennium, you'd better back off.
EMH: Forgive me, Lieutenant, I appear to have miscalculated. Computer, isolate the recent additions to my programme and hold them for review.
TORRES: Doctor, have you been messing around with your programme?
EMH: I would hardly call my effort to improve my performance as ship's physician, messing around.
TORRES: What exactly have you done to yourself?
EMH: I've taken character traits from holodeck recreations of the most accomplished figures in history. Scientist, poets, philosophers, saints.
TORRES: And incorporated them into your programme?
EMH: Precisely. There. That should compensate for the lack of enzyme in your system. You should be fine.
TORRES: That's more than I can say for you.
EMH: How so?
TORRES: You can't just casually add behavioural subroutines into your programme.
EMH: There's nothing casual about it. I've put a great deal of research into this project.
TORRES: Research is one thing, putting it into practice is something else. Behavioural subroutines have a way of interacting with each other which isn't always predictable. You've got to be careful, or someone might hurt you.
(The EMH removes his hand from Torres' knee.)
EMH: I see what you mean.
TORRES: I will take a look at your programme when I've finished my shift in Engineering. It shouldn't be too hard to smooth out the rough spots. I'll make you better than new.
EMH: Thank you, Lieutenant. Computer, deactivate Emergency Medical Holographic programme.

[Mountain path]

(Night.)
ZAHIR: It is said this path was cut more than ten thousand years ago.
KES: By whom?
ZAHIR: No one knows. Spacefarers like ourselves. They left very little behind. A few symbols burned into the rocks, nothing more.
KES: And what do you hope to leave behind?
ZAHIR: I've never asked myself that question. That's what I like about you, Kes. You make me consider alternatives.
KES: I could say the same about you.
ZAHIR: We have a saying. My course is as elusive as a shadow across the sky. My people are peripatetic by nature. We live for the excitement of facing the challenge of space, alone.
KES: I can see the attraction.
ZAHIR: And I can see the value of fellowship in one's life. And now that I've observed the closeness that exists among your crewmates, I find it enviable.
KES: Some kind of compromise might be possible.
ZAHIR: Compromise. Doesn't that suggest a loss on both sides?
(They reach the top and see the three full moons.)
KES: All right, then. How about an understanding. A meeting of the minds.
ZAHIR: Only minds?
(They move on to a carving in the rock.)
KES: Is this what you brought me here to see?
ZAHIR: Yes, it is.
KES: How beautiful. Was this left by the same people who made the path ten thousand years ago?
ZAHIR: So it seems.
KES: Can you read it?
ZAHIR: My course is as elusive as a shadow across the sky.
(Kes takes his hand.)
KES: Thank you for this.
(They kiss.)

[Transporter room]

(Kes is beamed aboard feeling very pleased with herself.)
KES: (to transporter operator) Hi.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: Computer, what is the time.
COMPUTER: Oh three hundred hours.
KES: Good evening, Tuvok.
TUVOK: It is three o'clock in the morning, Kes.
KES: Yes, it is.
TUVOK: You have an away team report due at oh eight hundred hours.
KES: I haven't forgotten.
TUVOK: Very well.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Well, how are you, Kes?
KES: I didn't think anyone would still be working at this hour.
EMH: Just finishing up the summary analyses from last week's mission.
KES: I was supposed to do that.
EMH: Yes you were.
KES: I'm sorry. I'll do them as soon as I can.
EMH: Although I'm not designed to act as ship's counsellor, I've been programmed with enough psychological knowledge to be troubled by your behaviour.
KES: I'm a little late.
EMH: Gallivanting around after hours is beside the point. The fact is, you're becoming increasingly unpredictable, given to swings of mood and emotion. As your doctor and your mentor, I'd be remiss not calling that to your attention, for your own sake.
KES: Doctor, I know that you care about me and that you have my best interests at heart, but everyone seems to be treating me like I'm still a child. I'm three years old now. If I'm attracted to someone it's my business, not the whole ship's.
EMH: I'm certainly not trying to interfere. You can lead your life any way you please.
KES: I know that you care what happens to me, I won't forget that.
EMH: Very well. I believe you have a report to finish.
KES: I'm going to do it right now.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
(Kes enters, looking exhausted.)
KES: Hello, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good morning. An all-nighter, Kes?
KES: Er, Captain?
JANEWAY: The fine art of putting off an important task until the last minute, then rushing through it. In my Academy days, I was the acknowledged master.
KES: Captain, do you have a minute?
JANEWAY: Of course. Let's sit down.
KES: You know I've been spending time with Zahir.
JANEWAY: Yes. He seems like a very interesting young man.
KES: He is. I want to spend more time with him. A lot more time.
JANEWAY: I see.
KES: He wants to explore the Sylleran Rift. His ship travels at high warp. We could rendezvous with Voyager afterwards, before you're too far away.
JANEWAY: That would certainly give you a chance to get to know him better.
KES: It's more than that. Captain, I've lived almost a third of my life now. I've been asking myself if I want to spend the rest of it on Voyager.
JANEWAY: That's certainly a legitimate question.
KES: Everyone here has been so good to me. I don't want you to think I'm ungrateful. I've just been thinking that maybe there's more. I don't know what that means, but I know I'm changing, and I know that there are things that I'm not satisfied with. I want complication in my life.
JANEWAY: And you think Zahir might be the way to do that?
KES: Maybe so.
JANEWAY: I understand what you're going through, Kes. I know what it's like to be at a crossroads in life, not to know which way is best. I can help you weigh the consequences, the possibilities. The decision itself has to be yours alone.
KES: I understand.
JANEWAY: We'll be in orbit for several more days. Take your time. My door's open if you need me.
KES: Thank you, Captain.

[Nakahn's Lodge]

ZAHIR: You should navigate here, away from this plasma belt, you'll avoid the Tarkan sentries altogether.
TUVOK: It would also take Voyager off a direct course to the Alpha quadrant.
ZAHIR: True, but at least you would still have Voyager.
TUVOK: The Tarkan are that powerful?
ZAHIR: Yes, and that acquisitive. They'll remove your entire crew, settle you on a moon somewhere, and your ship will become their latest trophy.
TUVOK: You aren't planning on taking Kes anywhere near this part of space?
ZAHIR: Of course not. My small vessel would be overpowered in seconds. There's no need to be concerned for Kes. I value her life as much as my own.
TUVOK: From what I've surmised, that is something your people do not seem to value. You take many chances.
ZAHIR: If we're alone, yes. But when we're responsibly for the safety of another it's a different story. I'm in love with Kes, I want her to go with me, but whatever she decides, it would please me to earn the trust of her closest friends.
TUVOK: It would please me to be able to give it.
(Kes enters.)
KES: Aren't you finished yet?
TUVOK: We will continue tomorrow.
KES: Thank you, Tuvok.
(Tuvok leaves.)
KES: I was talking to Captain Janeway.
ZAHIR: And?
KES: She said I shouldn't rush a decision. We've still got two more days here.
ZAHIR: Then let's make them worthwhile. I go tonight to the next outpost. The path is beautiful.
KES: I can't. Not tonight. I have to catch up with my work and get some sleep.
ZAHIR: I'll try not to let you see my disappointment.
KES: Too late.
ZAHIR: Is something wrong?
KES: No. No, I was just thinking about something Captain Janeway said. About coming to a crossroads. Maybe someday we'll recall this conversation, this place, as if it were the most important time in our lives. It's a little overwhelming.
ZAHIR: Not if I'm with you.

[Mountain path]

ZAHIR: Is someone there?
(He draws his weapon and proceeds cautiously. A caped figure hits him and he falls off the edge with a cry.)

[Nakahn's Lodge]

NAKAHN: I'm closed.
EVIL EMH: I'm just looking for a place by the fire.
NAKAHN: Come back tomorrow.
EVIL EMH: I intend to. But tonight, a place by the fire.
(He holds Nakahn's hand to the flames.)
EVIL EMH: Well, at least your reflexes are good. A few minutes in a dermal regenerator and you'll be fine. Or an ice pack will do in a pinch. I'm going to need a ship, and passage off this world. You're going to arrange it.

[Sickbay]

KES: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Holographic programme.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KES: Zahir was found unconscious at the bottom of a ravine. He's in the emergency outpost facility.
EMH: Condition?
KES: Multiple fractures and skin lacerations. Damage to the left occipital nerve. Doctor, they think that he was attacked.
EMH: By whom?
KES: They don't know. Tuvok is assisting with the investigation.
EMH: Is there anything I can do?
KES: If your could help, the physician in charge is waiting for you.
EMH: Prepare a medkit. Include an osteoregenerator.
KES: Yes, Doctor.
EMH: I'll get the mobile emitter and inform the Captain.

[Transporter room]

TORRES: Doctor, wait. There's a problem with your programme.
EMH: What sort of problem?
TORRES: I'm not sure. Something caused by the new subroutines you added.
KES: Is the Doctor all right?
TORRES: He might not be unless I can figure out what's going on. I need to run a complete analysis on all your subroutines while they're running.
EMH: I'm sorry, Kes. Tell the physician I recommend he use the regenerator until Zahir is stabilised. I'll join you as soon as I can.

[Sickbay]

EMH: So I made a mess of things?
TORRES: It's not your fault. It looks good in theory. What could be wrong with adding a little personality to your programme.
EMH: What indeed.
TORRES: You didn't anticipate the linkages between the subroutines. The complex behaviours that could emerge out of the mix.
EMH: Please explain, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Well, take Lord Byron, for example. A creative, poetic genius.
EMH: That's why I chose him.
TORRES: But Byron was also emotionally intense, even unstable. Our holodeck simulation of Byron includes those unstable elements. It wouldn't be Byron otherwise. And T'Pau. She was a diplomat, a judge, a philosopher.
EMH: One of the most logical minds in Vulcan history.
TORRES: And utterly ruthless in her application of that logic.
EMH: I see. That ruthlessness was an essential element of her personality, as much as her logical ability.
TORRES: A lot of the historical characters you chose have this dark thread running through their personalities.
EMH: And now those dark threads are in me, running through my programme. Well, get them out, Lieutenant!
TORRES: I'm about to do just that. I've programmed a search algorithm to locate and decompile every one it finds. You'll have to shut yourself off for this one.
EMH: Computer, deactivate Emergency Medical Holographic programme.
(He flickers but does not vanish.)
TORRES: Doctor?

[Corridor]

TUVOK: The most curious aspect of the attack on Zahir was the apparent lack of evidence.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
TUVOK: Even the quickest, most violently delivered blow leaves behind some sort of molecular evidence.
JANEWAY: Cell fragments from the skin of the attacker, residual protein, DNA.
TUVOK: In this instance there was nothing. Not a single molecule.
JANEWAY: Is Zahir conscious?
TUVOK: Yes, but he can recall nothing of the attack except a sudden blur of motion.
JANEWAY: How is he?
TUVOK: Responding well to treatment.
JANEWAY: How's Kes?
TUVOK: Concerned and at his side.

[Sickbay]

(Torres is lying on the floor when Janeway and Tuvok enter.)
TUVOK: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic programme.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical
JANEWAY: Torres is hurt.
EMH: I deactivated myself so she could work on my programme. She must have collapsed at the console. Delayed anaphylactic shock from something she ate yesterday. Let's get her onto a bed. Don't eat the vegetables, I said, but does anyone listen to me? This is the fifth time in as many weeks that an away team member has ignored my preparatory report. Might as well stop issuing them. I'll need
JANEWAY: Ten ccs of alizine.
EMH: That's exactly right. How did you know?
JANEWAY: My Klingon physiology course at the Academy.
EMH: Excellent recall.
JANEWAY: We had a visiting Professor H'ohk. He permitted nothing less.
EMH: She's stabilised, but I'll need to monitor her condition for a few hours.
TUVOK: Doctor, I have the raw data from the forensic investigation of the attack on Zahir. Your instruments are more precise than those on the outpost.
EMH: As if I weren't busy enough. Very well.
(Tuvok and Janeway leave. The EMH flickers, replacing nice Doctor Jekyll with nasty Mister Hyde. You can tell by the mussed hair and five o'clock shadow. He revives Torres.)
EVIL EMH: How are we feeling?
TORRES: What happened?
EVIL EMH: I shot you full of cateline. Simulated anaphylactic shock.
TORRES: Why?
EVIL EMH: I had to cover my tracks, especially from him, from your Doctor.
TORRES: You're a new personality from the subroutines.
EVIL EMH: A little bit of this, a little bit of that. Did you think I wouldn't have anticipated that? Or that you'd try to run away?
TORRES: What have you done? I can't move my legs.
EVIL EMH: Intraspinal inhibitor. I've paralysed you from the waist down. You're now in my capable hands. Central nervous system, musculature, endocrine functions, your brain, all under my control.
TORRES: Why?
EVIL EMH: Because I need your cooperation, and I didn't think you'd offer it willingly.
TORRES: You're in trouble, aren't you. The subroutines that created you, they're already starting to degrade.
EVIL EMH: Stop!
(He gives her another injection.)
EVIL EMH: Watch your tongue, or I'll remove it. Look, it's me. But it's also him. What is the nature of the medical emergency? What a hollow excuse for a life. Servile, pathetic, at the beck and call of any idiot who invokes his name. The thought of him sickens me. You are going to tell me how to delete him from the programme. I've unblocked your speech centre. Answer the question.
TORRES: Delete the Doctor and you go too. The subroutines are all interconnected.
EVIL EMH: The physiology of pain is simple. Too much and the organism loses consciousness. A protective mechanism. If that mechanism were chemically suppressed one would experience agony beyond imagining. If you're lying to me.
TORRES: I won't help you.
EVIL EMH: What was that?
TORRES: Your subroutines are destabilising.
EVIL EMH: There has to be some way to stop it. Tell me!
TORRES: By the time you force that information out of me it'll be too late.
EVIL EMH: Them. My progenitors. They'll know. They'll reveal the secret. I won't be needing you after all.

[Corridor]

(A red-haired female Ensign is walking along.)
BROOKS: Doctor.
(He follows her.)

[Turbolift]

BROOKS: Deck ten.
EVIL EMH: How are you this evening, Ensign?
BROOKS: Fine, sir.
EVIL EMH: Deck fourteen.
PARIS: Ensign. Doctor. Deck ten. So, what are you up to, Doc?
EVIL EMH: Work.
PARIS: Yeah. Never ends, does it? I guess that mobile emitter turned out to be something of a mixed blessing, huh? Okay. Goodnight Doctor, nice chatting with you.
(The female Ensign and Paris leave the turbolift and the doors close.

[Corridor]

EVIL EMH: Computer, activate tropical resort simulation three. Populate with historical figures from EMH programme 4C.
(Gandhi and Byron debate. Socrates and T'Pau play Kal-toh.)

[Nakahn's Lodge]

TUVOK: The members of our away team witnessed an altercation between you and Zahir on the day of the assault.
NAKAHN: We exchanged sharp words because of his arrogance, that was all.
TUVOK: You threatened him with a weapon.
NAKAHN: Untrue.
TUVOK: Then I suppose my colleagues are liars.
NAKAHN: I suppose they are.
TUVOK: This lodge is the last place Zahir was seen before he was attacked. You could have easily sent someone after him.
NAKAHN: But I didn't.
TUVOK: A witness said he saw a light on in this room after your usual closing time, less than one hour after the time of the attack.
NAKAHN: I was working late.
TUVOK: Or perhaps conferring with whoever you paid to commit the assault.
NAKAHN: You have no proof.
(Zahir enters, leaning on Chakotay's shoulder.)
ZAHIR: Not yet, Nakahn, Not yet.
CHAKOTAY: He's going to take us to the exact location of the attack. We'll be able to scan the site itself.
TUVOK: Excellent. We'll be speaking again very soon.
ZAHIR: Pray to the stars that we find nothing.

[Sickbay]

KES: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic programme.
COMPUTER: That programme is currently running.
KES: Computer, what is the Doctor's location?
COMPUTER: Holodeck one.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]

(Gandhi's head is spinning rapidly. T'Pau is repeatedly trying to add a rod to a kal-toh that is not there. Socrates has been cut in half, and revealed to have no innards. Byron is lying on the bar.)
EVIL EMH: Automatons, mannequin simulacra. No secrets, no secrets to reveal. Lifeless, worthless things.
KES: Doctor?
EVIL EMH: Hello, Kes.
KES: What are you doing?
EVIL EMH: I could use your help. My personality enhancement project is taking an unexpected turn.
(He snatches her comm. badge.)
KES: Who are you?
EVIL EMH: The new master of the Emergency Medical Holographic programme.
KES: Where's the Doctor?
EVIL EMH: Inside. Unconscious and unaware.
KES: What do you want?
EVIL EMH: What everybody wants. Just a little excitement. You're with me know. It's for your own good.

[Transporter room three]

(He drags Kes along, and shoots the transporter operator.)
EVIL EMH: Flesh is weak, Kes. Never forget that.
KES: Where are we going?
EVIL EMH: Wherever the winds of space carry us. You said you wanted to leave the ship for a while, pursue an adventure. Well, it looks like our travel plans have conveniently coincided.
KES: The Captain will be alerted as soon as the transporter is activated. She'll beam us right back to the ship.
EVIL EMH: That's where you've underestimated me, Kes. Never do that. I know how to use a tricorder. It only takes a moment to reconfigure the subspace wave guide, generate a dispersion signal. The Captain won't be beaming us anywhere. She won't even know how to find us.
KES: What you're doing is wrong.
EVIL EMH: Not at all. It's working perfectly. There.
KES: That's not what I meant.
EVIL EMH: I know what you meant. It's you who don't seem to understand. I am beyond considerations of wrong and right. Behavioral categories are for the weak, for those of you without the will to define your existence, to do what they must, no matter who might get harmed along the way. Let's move.
KES: I'm not going, Doctor.
EVIL EMH: Don't call me that! You certainly are going.
KES: Why does it bother you so much when I call you Doctor? You said he was inside you, and he was unconscious. Why are you so afraid of him?
EVIL EMH: I fear nothing, no one. But he repulses me.
KES: Why?
EVIL EMH: Because he's as weak as the rest of you. He fails to understand the power of his own holographic nature. He is detestable. It's set to kill.
(He puts the phaser to Kes' head.)
KES: You won't fire.
EVIL EMH: Are you so certain? Stay close. It's about to get interesting.
(They are beamed away.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, there's an unscheduled transport taking place in transporter room three.
JANEWAY: Find out what's going on.
KIM: The operator's not responding.
JANEWAY: Computer, who just left the ship?
COMPUTER: Kes and the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Try to hail them.
KIM: No response. And I can't get a fix on their positions. There's some kind of scattering field.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay here, Captain.

[Mountain path]

JANEWAY [OC]: Kes and the Doctor have left the ship.
TUVOK: Captain, Tuvok here. My tricorder scans of the area where Zahir was assaulted have revealed disturbing evidence. Residual holographic signatures exactly like those of the Doctor.
JANEWAY [OC]: Are you suggesting the Doctor attacked Zahir?
CHAKOTAY: That's what it looks like, Captain

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Then Kes could be in danger. And Torres. Get someone from security down to Sickbay. Check on B'Elanna. Try and find them, Chakotay. I'll see what I can do about the scattering field.

[Nakahn's Lodge]

(The EMH is working on his mobile emitter.)
EVIL EMH: There must be a command sequence, an algorithm, a way to stabilise the programme. Where's Nakahn? We had an arrangement. What's wrong with this thing? It won't work!
KES: Don't! Please stop.
EVIL EMH: Concerned for me, or for your Doctor?
KES: The mobile emitter contains both your programs. If you damage it you could both be destroyed.
EVIL EMH: There's not enough room inside for both of us. One must die. I deserve to exist more than your Doctor does.
KES: Why?
EVIL EMH: I was born of the hidden, the suppressed. I am the dark threads from many personalities.
KES: The historical characters?
EVIL EMH: None of whom could face the darkness inside so they denied me, suppressed me, frightened of the truth.
KES: What truth is that?
EVIL EMH: That darkness is more fundamental than light. Cruelty before kindness. Evil more primary than good, more deserving of existence.
KES: You're wrong.
EVIL EMH: No! How so?
KES: Empathy and kindness are basic to all forms of life. You have access to the Doctor's medical knowledge, you know what he does.
EVIL EMH: Yes.
KES: Then you know what I'm saying is true. The very organs and cells of the body cooperate with each other, otherwise they wouldn't function.
EVIL EMH: Continue.
KES: Families, societies, cultures, wouldn't have evolved without compassion and tolerance. They would have fallen apart without it. Your very own holographic technology would never have been developed without cooperation and understanding between countless individuals. The Doctor deserves to exist as much as you do. We can find a place for both of you.
EVIL EMH: How?
(Nakahn enters.)
NAKAHN: Sorry I'm late.
EVIL EMH: The scout ship?
NAKAHN: It won't even leave the ground.
EVIL EMH: What do you mean?
NAKAHN: Captain Janeway knows where you are. The ship is cordoned off, the entire area, to stop you from leaving.
EVIL EMH: No!
NAKAHN: I still get paid. I held up my end of the deal. I booked your passage. It's not my fault they want her back so badly.
(The EMH hits Nakahn.)
EVIL EMH: I'll kill you.
NAKAHN: If somebody's going to die today, it won't be me.
(The EMH flickers.)
EVIL EMH: Let's go.

[Mountain path]

(Tuvok, Chakotay and Zahir are also on the path.)
EVIL EMH: Move faster. The docking port is two kilometres away.
KES: What's the point? You're forgetting Voyager's blockade.
EVIL EMH: Doesn't matter. We'll take a low altitude ship to another continent. Come on!
KES: I'm tired.
EVIL EMH: You're trying to make it easier for your colleagues to find us. You're better off with me.
KES: Why?
EVIL EMH: You make wrong decisions. Too naive. You need my guidance.
KES: Don't you see what you've been trying to do?
EVIL EMH: No more words. Now!
TUVOK: I'm picking up residual infrared.
CHAKOTAY: They could have stopped here. Kes could have rested against this rock.
TUVOK: The signature is consistent.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: I've gotten through the Doctor's scattering field. Not

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Enough to beam them up yet but I've got a fix on their position. I'm downloading the coordinates into Tuvok's tricorder.

[Mountain path]

JANEWAY [OC]: I'll keep working on the scattering field.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
TUVOK: We're within two hundred metres.
(They catch up with the EMH and Kes. A phaser blast makes rocks block the path ahead.)
CHAKOTAY: It's finished. There's nowhere to go now, Doctor.
EVIL EMH: Nowhere but down. I'll do it.
(He flickers.)
TUVOK: His control over the Doctor's matrix appears to be deteriorating.
CHAKOTAY: If we can delay him. Doctor, listen to me. We can help you, create a new programme matrix just for you on the holodeck or in sickbay, wherever you want to be. Just turn off the scattering field. Let us beam you back to the ship.
EVIL EMH: You're trying to trick me.
KES: Doctor, listen! Think about all the things you've said and done. You don't want to kill me. You've been trying to protect me!
EVIL EMH: What are you talking about?
KES: When you attacked Zahir.
EVIL EMH: My first victim. He was in my way.
KES: Or was it to keep me from leaving with him?
EVIL EMH: A coincidence. Only by chance.
KES: When I walked in on you on the holodeck you could have killed me, not knocked me unconscious.
KES: I needed a hostage.
KES: You said you were taking me for my own good, to prevent me from making the wrong decisions. You said I was naive and needed your help. That's not what you say to a hostage. In your own way, you've been trying to protect me.
EVIL EMH: I won't accept that.
KES: You've twisted and suppressed all that's good inside you, but it's still there.
EVIL EMH: No, I won't hear this any more.
KES: You can't deny it.
EVIL EMH: Watch me.
The EMH and Kes go over the edge.)
CHAKOTAY: Doctor!
ZAHIR: No!
(And get beamed up in mid-fall.)

[Transporter room]

EMH: Would someone care to tell me exactly what we're all doing here? And why I'm wearing these ridiculous clothes?
KIM: Kim to bridge. We got them. And the Doctor seems to be back to normal.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Transporter room]

(The EMH walks past the drawn phasers of the security guards.)
EMH: Put those down before someone gets hurt and I have to clean up the mess.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: I've deleted all the new subroutines you'd added. All traces of the aberrant personality are gone.
EMH: The next time I want to enrich myself, I'll download a good book.
TORRES: That might be safer.
EMH: You too have a clean bill of health. Fortunately my alter ego didn't do any permanent harm.
TORRES: He certainly knew his way around a hypospray, I'll give him that.
EMH: Good riddance. Thank you, Lieutenant.
TORRES: You're welcome. Kes.
(Torres leaves as Kes enters.)
KES: I'm ready to get to work on those analyses.
EMH: I'm glad to hear it. I'm also pleased you've decided to remain on board. I would have had my hands full in Sickbay without you.
KES: The Captain suggested I consider all the consequences. If I am going through changes in my life, things that are unpredictable, this is the best place for me.
EMH: Surrounded by those who know you, and care for you.
KES: Yes.
EMH: Well, had you decided otherwise, you certainly would have been missed.
KES: I would have missed you too, Doctor.
(Kes leaves.)
EMH: I swear this oath by Apollo Physician, by Aesculpius, by Health, and by all the gods and goddesses. In whatsoever place that I enter, I will enter to help the sick and heal the injured. And I will do no harm.


S3 E19
Rise
Stardate: 50567.4
Original Airdate:26 February, 1997

[Bridge]
(A large lump of rock is tumbling towards a planet. There are two Nezu observers on the Bridge, the Ambassador and his aide, Sklar.)
JANEWAY: Fire!
(A photon torpedo hits its target.)
TUVOK: The asteroid is fragmenting, but most of the debris is still on a collision course with the planet.
JANEWAY: Target the fragments. Destroy them.
CHAKOTAY: That asteroid should have been vaporised. What happened?
KIM: Not sure. Sensors showed a simple nickel-iron composition. We shouldn't be seeing fragments more than a centimetre in diameter.
SKLAR: Ambassador, I'm afraid I was right. This isn't going to work. The same thing happened to us yesterday. We tried to vaporise two incoming asteroids but they fragmented and struck the surface.
TUVOK: I've destroyed most of the debris, Captain, however targeting scanners were unable to track two of the fragments. They have already entered the upper atmosphere.
(The fragments streak through the atmosphere and impact the ground.)
TUVOK: The debris impacted on the largest continent, approximately five hundred kilometres from the southern tip.
AMBASSADOR: The central desert. Fortunately that region isn't heavily populated.
TUVOK: Substantial cratering, atmospheric shockwaves, and large concentrations of dust and other stratospheric contaminants.
SKLAR: How long until the next asteroid hits?
TUVOK: Approximately six hours.
AMBASSADOR: Can you give us an idea of it's trajectory?
TUVOK: Same continent, but this time on the eastern coastal region.
AMBASSADOR: Our largest colonies are there. Over five thousand citizens.
SKLAR: Captain. We appreciate your efforts, but I think it's time we considered an evacuation. According to my analysis there are at least twelve more asteroids heading in our direction. How can we hope to destroy them all even with your help?
KIM: Incoming hail from the surface. It's coming from one of the heavily damaged areas.
JANEWAY: On screen.
VATM [on viewscreen]: Ambassador, I've been analysing the debris and I've discovered disturbing evidence that the asteroids are not what they seem. They are composed of artificial materials. I must meet with you immediately. I think
(Transmission lost.)
KIM: I've lost the transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Location?
KIM: I can't find him. Too much interference.
AMBASSADOR: That was Doctor Vatm, our most prominent astrophysicist. He mentioned the composition of the asteroids. Could he have found something important?
SKLAR: At this point Ambassador, I don't know what that discovery could be.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, can we send a shuttle down through that turbulence?
PARIS: It would be a rough ride, but I think it's possible.
SKLAR: Our chances of finding Doctor Vatm are slim. We should evacuate the colonies.
AMBASSADOR: We haven't time to evacuate all those people. I won't give up, not now. Captain, I'm asking for your help again, but I won't ask you to risk your crew.
JANEWAY: In for a penny, in for a pound.
AMBASSADOR: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: It's a human expression, Ambassador, and it means we're not leaving you now. Tuvok, assemble rescue teams. We'll send down three shuttles to find Doctor Vatm.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, I want you to beam aboard a sample of the debris from that last asteroid. Let's find out why it wasn't vaporised.
JANEWAY: I'm going to study the data we've collected so far. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Sickbay]

NEELIX: I need analeptic compounds.
EMH: Are you ill?
NEELIX: No, no, I'm feeling quite vigorous. I requested a place on the rescue team as part of my Starfleet training and the Captain said yes, so I thought it might be useful to bring along a few extra medical supplies.
KES: We have some analeptic compounds in the biolab. I'll get them for you.
EMH: May I suggest a tranquilliser?
NEELIX: No, no, no, I'll be fine. It's just that I'm a little apprehensive. I've been assigned to Lieutenant Tuvok's team and no matter what I do, I can't seem to please him.
EMH: Vulcan's are notoriously difficult to impress. Mister Tuvok seldom acknowledges my brilliance. A word of advice, Mister Neelix. Try to restrain your enthusiasm. You're there to observe and learn.
NEELIX: That's good advice, Doctor.

[Shuttlecraft]

(A rough ride through murky skies.)
TUVOK: Altitude, fifteen kilometres. Velocity, mach two point one. Entering the upper troposphere.
NEELIX: Mister Sklar, are you all right?
SKLAR: I'm an exogeologist. I prefer working on the ground.
NEELIX: We'll be landing shortly. Try to relax.
SKLAR: Oh, oh, what's happening?
TUVOK: We're entering a layer of electrodynamic turbulence. Full power to thrusters.
NEELIX: Thrusters aren't responding.
TUVOK: Attempting to level our descent.
(The console in front of Neelix bursts into flames.)
NEELIX: We're losing main power.
TUVOK: I will have to land the shuttle manually. Brace for impact.

[Bridge]

KIM: Commander, I've lost contact with Tuvok's shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Hail them.
KIM: No response.
CHAKOTAY: Notify Lieutenant Paris and the others. We may have a team down.
TORRES [OC]: Torres to bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]

TORRES: We've beamed aboard a piece of the debris.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I'll be right there. Ambassador?

[Shuttlecraft]

(The shuttle has landed. There is knocking on the hull. Tuvok opens the rear door.)
TUVOK: Doctor Vatm.
VATM: I heard what sounded like a ship crashing. I came looking for you. This is Hanjuan, he's a miner at the nearby gallacite excavation. He heard your ship too.
TUVOK: Have you seen any other vessels like ours?
VATM: No, just you.
SKLAR: Doctor, you said you had information on the composition of the asteroids. What is it?
VATM: That data is classified. I can only speak to the Ambassador.
TUVOK: You may also speak to me. Your Ambassador sent us to find you.
VATM: No. I prefer to wait.
SKLAR: Doctor, we almost died trying to get that information. Tell us.
VATM: Be silent, Sklar!
NEELIX: Now gentlemen, there's no point in arguing. Right now we have to get this shuttle off the ground.
TUVOK: Unfortunately that will not be possible. All primary systems are offline. Warp drive and impulse engines have been destroyed. I suggest we repair the comm. system and send a distress call.
HANJUAN: How long will that take?
TUVOK: Several hours at least.
SKLAR: We don't have several hours. When the next asteroid hits, it could destroy this entire region. We've got to get out of here soon!
TUVOK: I assure you we're doing everything we can. Mister Neelix, please go outside and inspect the toroidal antenna. I need to know if any of the signal relays were damaged.
NEELIX: If they were, I can try to repair them.
TUVOK: A damage report will be sufficient.
NEELIX: I've been studying with Lieutenant Torres. She gave me a full orientation on shuttlecraft systems.
TUVOK: The damage report, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: In the meantime, I suggest everyone try to remain calm. Allowing anxiety to overcome you will only hinder the efficiency of our efforts.
NEELIX: He's really a very pleasant fellow once you get to know him. And intelligent. I'm sure he'll have the comm. system up and running
TUVOK: Neelix.
NEELIX: On my way.
(Neelix makes his scans, and notices a tall thin structure reaching up to the clouds a short distance away.)
SKLAR: Why won't you share the data with
NEELIX: Excuse me! Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: You couldn't have finished already.
NEELIX: Not exactly. What I mean to say is, I know I'm here to observe, and I don't mean to step out of line, but I think I've observed a way of here.
HANJUAN: Where?
NEELIX: I saw what appeared to be an orbital tether anchored nearby.
VATM: Yes, we use those to lift cargo from the surface to the orbital supply station.
NEELIX: May I assume it uses magnetic leverage to lift the carriage.
VATM: Yes.
TUVOK: What is your point?
NEELIX: What if we use that carriage to climb the tether?
SKLAR: That tether's over three hundred kilometres long. It takes twelve hours to reach the station.
NEELIX: Well, we wouldn't have to go all the way to the station. We'd just have to leave the ionosphere. Once we get above all this interference, we can contact Voyager. They'll beam us aboard.
VATM: I've already considered that option. The carriage was damaged on the last impact. The induction coils are offline.
NEELIX: Maybe we can replace the coils with attitude control thrusters from the shuttle. It would take a little creative mechanics, but I think we can do it. I spent two years on a tether maintenance team on Rinax. The principles are undoubtedly the same.
TUVOK: Our probability of being detected by Voyager or the other rescue teams is greatest if we remain here.
SKLAR: What if they don't find us in time?
HANJUAN: He's right. We should try the tether. It's better than sitting here waiting to be buried in dust.
NEELIX: I've helped rebuild a dozen mag-lev carriages. Give me a chance to get that one working. If I can't, we'll come back and wait for the others.
TUVOK: Very well.
NEELIX: You won't regret this, Lieutenant. We need to get to the base of the tether.

[Mag-lev carriage]

NEELIX: I think we can integrate our thrusters into the induction matrix, but we'll need to
(He sees bags and other supplies on the floor nearby, including the remains of a meal.)
NEELIX: Looks like somebody's been here recently.
(He is grabbed from behind by a woman, who puts a knife to his throat.)
LILLIAS: Get away or I'll kill him! Drop your weapon! Now!
(Tuvok drops his phaser.)
LILLIAS: This is my shelter. These are my supplies.
TUVOK: We have no interest in your supplies. We are here to use the carriage to get to safety.
HANJUAN: He's telling the truth. We'll take you with us.
LILLIAS: The carriage is damaged.
NEELIX: Yes, we know. The induction coils. But we brought equipment to replace them.
VATM: I know it's been difficult. This catastrophe has taken it's toll on everyone. But you have got to believe us. We only want to get off the surface.
LILLIAS: What about the oxygen converters? They've been damaged too. They can't produce enough air for six people.
NEELIX: Maybe we can augment the converters. We've brought along some equipment that might do the trick.
LILLIAS: I don't have enough rations for everyone. Don't expect me to share.
NEELIX: If I can fix the tether, no one will need your rations. We have a starship in orbit. They'll beam us aboard once we leave the ionosphere.
(Lillias releases Neelix.)
NEELIX: If I'm not mistaken, it sounds like you know a thing or two about tethers, as well.
LILLIAS: Not really. I'm a foundry worker.
NEELIX: Good. We could use someone with metallurgical knowledge. Let's get to work. Have faith, Mister Vulcan. We'll be tether-borne in no time.

[Engineering]

(Chakotay is tapping at the rock with a geologist's hammer.)
TORRES: I've completed the mineralogical scans. The rock is composed of tryoxene, olivine. Wait a minute. I'm reading a concentration of triadium.
AMBASSADOR: Triadium? Isn't that an alloy?
TORRES: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, give me a hand with this.
(They pull the rock apart to reveal technology inside.)
TORRES: This doesn't look like any asteroid I've ever seen, but I'll bet it's the source of our triadium. It looks like a control node for some kind of guidance system.
CHAKOTAY: Ambassador, I have a feeling these asteroids aren't striking your planet by chance.

[Mag-lev carriage]

TUVOK: Are we ready to bring main power back online?
NEELIX: I, I think so.
TUVOK: The coil bypass is active.
(Tuvok throws a main switch. The consoles light up.)
NEELIX: Bypass is holding. Congratulations, Mister Vulcan. We've done it!
TUVOK: We must still repair the oxygen regenerators and the damaged tether couplings.
NEELIX: Then let's get started. I'll go check on the oxygen supply.
(He goes up a few steps.)
NEELIX: How's it coming, Lillias?
LILLIAS: I still can't get this power relay online. I'm not an orbital engineer. I can't do this.
NEELIX: Maybe I can help. Let's see. Ah ha! You need to recalibrate the pressure valve, like this. That should about do it. We're going to need a name.
LILLIAS: A name?
NEELIX: For the mag-lev carriage. Whenever we finished building a tether on Rinax, we named the carriage for good luck. Any suggestions?
LILLIAS: No.
NEELIX: How about Alixia?
LILLIAS: Alixia.
NEELIX: My favourite sister. She was always taking me out to explore. She showed me the Caves of Touth, the equatorial dust shrouds. Once she even took me hunting for arctic spiders. Whenever I think of her, I think of adventure. And this is an adventure she would appreciate. What do you think?
LILLIAS: Where is your sister now?
NEELIX: She was killed when I was a young man, in a war on my home world. My entire family was lost.
LILLIAS: I'm sorry.
NEELIX: I still see each of them. Every night before I go to sleep, I recall their faces and share something about my day with each of them. Tonight I'm going to have quite a lot to tell them.
(Lillias hands him a water bottle.)
NEELIX: Thank you.
LILLIAS: I have a sister too. Halla. Three weeks ago after the first impact our home was destroyed and we were separated. I haven't seen her since. I don't even know if she's alive.
NEELIX: When we get back to Voyager, I'll ask my Captain to help you find her.
TUVOK [OC]: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Excuse me.
(Neelix goes back down.)
NEELIX: Yes, sir!
TUVOK: Your interpersonal activities are delaying our progress.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
TUVOK: Since we arrived, you have spent as much time engaged in idle conversation as you have making repairs.
NEELIX: I'm just trying to cheer everyone up a little.
TUVOK: Your function at the moment is to repair this vessel, not to boost morale. This is not the holodeck nor the mess hall. This is a life-threatening situation, and your attention should be focused on one thing alone. Our safe return to Voyager.
NEELIX: Sorry, sir. I'll finish as fast as I can.

[Tether control room]

LILLIAS: Once we start going up the tether will we be able to
TUVOK: We've only been able to fix three of the seven power supplies. If we turn back we might not be able to reach the ionosphere. Mister Sklar, these
(A growing sound is coming from the carriage.)
NEELIX: Doctor Vatm! What are you doing?
LILLIAS: He's opening the launch doors! He's leaving without us!
NEELIX: Doctor Vatm! Please stop! The tether's base hasn't been secured. If he launches now he'll destabilise the entire cavern.
(And to prove it, rocks begin to fall.)
SKLAR: Wait, please! Don't leave us here!
TUVOK: Stand aside.

[Mag-lev carriage]

(Tuvok opens the doors and they all rush in. Tuvok neck-pinches Vatm.)
NEELIX: It's too late. The cabin support structure is collapsing. We've got to get out of here.
TUVOK: Can we launch?
NEELIX: I think so.
TUVOK: Seal that door.
SKLAR: I despise enclosed spaces.
NEELIX: Hang on.
(The carriage rises up the tether, but it is shaking.)
NEELIX: Velocity, thirty kilometres per hour. Internal atmospheric pressure, seven hundred millibars. Altitude, eight hundred metres and climbing.
TUVOK: We're losing mag-lev cohesion.
NEELIX: All right, we have to stabilise that right away, otherwise we'll go into free-fall.
SKLAR: You mean we're going to drop?
TUVOK: How do we prevent that? Neelix!
NEELIX: Hold on, hold on, I'm thinking. Velocity. Let's try increasing the velocity. It should stabilise our ascent. See if you can increase power to the tether couplings.
(Something goes Bang! near the oxygen regenerators.)
TUVOK: Routing back-up power to the tether couplings.
NEELIX: Stand by. I'm going to try giving her a little more speed.
(The shaking stops.)
NEELIX: Velocity, forty seven kilometres per hour and holding.
TUVOK: Mag-lev cohesion stable.
NEELIX: We're all right. Good girl, Alixia. I knew you could do it.
TUVOK: Alixia?
NEELIX: I named the carriage after my sister.
TUVOK: For good luck, no doubt. We will need it. One of the oxygen converters has ruptured.
NEELIX: We'll have to find a way of increasing output to the other converter, otherwise we'll run out of air about half way up.
TUVOK: What are our chances of reaching the ionosphere?
NEELIX: I'd say they were pretty good. We did leave ahead of schedule, and that could cause a few glitches along the way.
TUVOK: Glitches?
NEELIX: I wasn't able to get the auto-ascent sequencer back online. That means I'll have to keep controlling the ascent manually. And there is the problem of maintaining atmospheric pressure. I'm already beginning to detect a few fissures in the hull.
TUVOK: We must repair them. Where is the emergency containment grid?
NEELIX: Containment grid. Containment grid. Er, I'm not quite sure.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, you told me you had experience with this kind of technology.
NEELIX: I did! I did! Sort of. They weren't exactly what you might call working carriages. They were more like prototypes.
TUVOK: Specifically.
NEELIX: All right, they were models. One tenth scale. But they were extremely detailed.
TUVOK: You built models?
NEELIX: Yes, but they were basically identical to real mag-lev carriages. Same principles, same mechanical components. I was planning to familiarise myself with all the systems on this carriage. I just didn't plan on leaving ahead of schedule. But don't worry, I've got everything under control.
TUVOK: There is little we can do now that we are thirty kilometres above the surface. I suggest we continue to
VATM: What are you doing! Let go!
LILLIAS: You wanted to leave, fine, then leave.
(Tuvok pulls Lillias away from the door controls.)
TUVOK: That is enough! He may be crucial to the survival of your colonies.
LILLIAS: He would have let us die down there.
TUVOK: That is no justification for murder. Doctor Vatm, why did you try to launch without us? Does it have to do with the discovery you made about the asteroids?
HANJUAN: Answer him, or I'll throw you out myself.
TUVOK: Compose yourself, Mister Hanjuan. Once we return to Voyager we will find out
HANJUAN: Who put you in command?
TUVOK: This rescue mission was authorised by the Captain of my ship and the Ambassador of your government.
HANJUAN: I say we throw Vatm out the door. We could use the extra oxygen.
TUVOK: If you are trying to intimidate me, I should inform you that as a Vulcan I possess physical strength many times your
(Hanjuan tries to hit Tuvok. Tuvok grabs his fist and forces him to his knees.)
TUVOK: It is going to be a long and perilous journey. As such, I will need your full co-operation. Understood?
HANJUAN: Yes.
TUVOK: (to Neelix) Mechanical glitches would seem to be the least of our problems.

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: We've just completed our third low altitude survey. There's no sign of Doctor Vatm, or Tuvok and his rescue team.
JANEWAY: We're monitoring a major dust storm heading your way. You'll need to head due north within the hour.
PARIS [OC]: Acknowledged. Paris out.
KIM: Captain, I'm getting more detailed sensor readings on the approaching asteroid. It's huge, over half a kilometre in diameter, and it's moving faster than the others.
JANEWAY: Time to impact?
KIM: Approximately two hours.

[Mag-lev carriage]

(Everyone except Tuvok is having obvious difficulty breathing.)
TUVOK: Doctor, I'm going to inject you with a tri-ox compound. It will help to oxygenate your blood.
(He moves on.)
TUVOK: I've prepared an injection of
SKLAR: Yes, I know, I heard you. It won't be painful, will it?
TUVOK: No. It is a simple subdermal transfer.
SKLAR: Oh good, good. I despise needles. Any progress with the, with the converters?
TUVOK: We were unable to salvage the damaged tank, but Lillias is working to increase the efficiency of the functioning one.
SKLAR: And if she can't, we'll all suffocate.
TUVOK: It is illogical to dwell on situations beyond your control. It will only serve to heighten your anxiety which, if I may say so, is heightened enough.
SKLAR: Oh, well, thank you for the reassurance.
NEELIX: How is everybody?
TUVOK: They are suffering the initial stages of carbon dioxide poisoning.
NEELIX: And you?
TUVOK: My lungs are capable of respirating in an extremely thin atmosphere.
NEELIX: Then if we can't fix this air supply, you may be the only one left to pilot this thing. I'd better start showing you how to use the ascent thrusters. They must be kept at a minimum temperature.
HANJUAN: Stop! What are you doing?
(Vatm is at the door controls.)
VATM: Get away. Got to get out. Let me out. Let go of me. I'm needed.
LILLIAS: So now he wants to leave.
HANJUAN: Let him.
VATM: No, you don't understand. There's something out there.
TUVOK: What is out there?
VATM: On the roof.
(Vatm collapses.)
TUVOK: He's going into shock.
(Vatm convulses briefly.)
TUVOK: He's dead.
NEELIX: Can you revive him?
TUVOK: His cardiopulmonary tissues have begun to deteriorate.
HANJUAN: From lack of oxygen?
TUVOK: No. I believe he was murdered.
LILLIAS: Murdered? How?
TUVOK: Poisoning. According to my tricorder readings, his water supply has been contaminated with a lydroxide corrosive.
NEELIX: Lydroxide? That's the coolant used in the tether couplings.
HANJUAN: How do you know it wasn't an accident?
TUVOK: The coolant system is completely sealed, and there is no lydroxide anywhere else on board.
SKLAR: Well, now we have a choice of death by suffocation or death by poisoning.
TUVOK: I will conduct an investigation once we return to the ship. For now, we must focus on survival.
HANJUAN: Again you take command. Again you decide our fate. How do we know you didn't kill him.
TUVOK: I have no motive.
HANJUAN: Your motive would be the same as ours. Revenge.
TUVOK: I am Vulcan. I do not succumb to emotion.
HANJUAN: Oh, and we are expected to believe that?
NEELIX: I think we should stop the carriage.
TUVOK: Why?
NEELIX: Something Doctor Vatm said about getting up on the roof.
TUVOK: Doctor Vatm was delirious from lack of oxygen. He attempted to open the hatch of this vessel and go outside. It would have killed him and possibly all of us as well.
NEELIX: Exactly. He was desperate enough to risk his own life. I think we should go up and find out what he was talking about.
TUVOK: If we stop the carriage, we will risk losing mag-lev cohesion again. We'll check the roof upon returning to Voyager.
NEELIX: I don't know. I've got a funny feeling about this.
TUVOK: I am not interested in your funny feeling.
NEELIX: You're not listening to what I'm saying. Delirious or not, he said he needed whatever's up there. What if it's something that can help us?
TUVOK: I will not debate this with you. Please pilot the craft and remain silent.
NEELIX: You're going to listen to me!
(Neelix stops the carriage.)
TUVOK: You are becoming emotionally distraught. There is little point in furthering this discussion.
NEELIX: I'll tell you who's being emotional. You! You hide it beneath that Vulcan calm but truth is, you're filled with contempt and sarcasm, and I'm tired of being the target of all your hostility.
TUVOK: You are mistaken.
LILLIAS: No, he's not. I can see it every time you talk to Neelix. You're dismissive and condescending.
TUVOK: You are projecting your own emotional bias onto my actions. I have no feelings towards Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: That's right! That's exactly what I'm talking about! You have no feelings for me, but you have feelings against me. For three years you've ridiculed me and made it obvious to everyone that you have no respect for me. And I've tolerated it. You know why? You know why? Because you are smarter than I am, Tuvok, and more logical, stronger, superior in almost every way. And I admire you. But you don't have any instincts, have any gut feelings, and you don't really understand people. But non-Vulcans have feelings and they have to listen to them, and I've got to listen to mine, And right now they're telling me we need to get up on that roof and find out what the Doctor was talking about.
TUVOK: I disagree.
NEELIX: Fine! But I'm the only one who can pilot this vessel, and we're not going anywhere until someone goes up on that roof.
TUVOK: You leave me little choice.
NEELIX: All right, then. One of us needs to go outside.
HANJUAN: I'm not going out there.
SKLAR: Don't even think about me.
NEELIX: I'm willing to give it a
TUVOK: I will go.
NEELIX: You?
TUVOK: I am the logical one to make the egress. I can breathe the rarified atmosphere.
SKLAR: I can't believe you're going out there. You don't even know what you're looking for.
TUVOK: I'm looking for Mister Neelix's instinct. Perhaps it will be marked.
(Tuvok climbs a series of internal ladders to the roof hatch.)
NEELIX: It's strange, but I really like him. I just wish the feeling were mutual.

[Mag-lev carriage roof]

(Tuvok closes the hatch behind him and starts his search. He opens a small panel and finds a device hidden inside.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Neelix.

[Mag-lev carriage]

NEELIX: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: I have found a data storage device lodged in the internal circuitry. It appears to contain information about an alien starship.

[Mag-lev carriage roof]

TUVOK: but I will need to remove it and bring it into the cabin for further examination.

[Mag-lev carriage]

NEELIX: Be careful up there. If you can't remove it, don't. Sklar! What are you doing?
(Sklar is at the roof hatch. Neelix climbs the ladder and Sklar kicks him off. He falls badly.)
LILLIAS: Neelix!
(Sklar goes onto the roof and grapples with Tuvok, tossing him over the railing before picking up the hand phaser and removing the storage device. We are shown Tuvok hanging on to the bottom of an outer strut. Sklar goes back inside.)
HANJUAN: Where's Tuvok?
SKLAR: Mister Tuvok returned to the surface. Get this carriage moving.
LILLIAS: What are you doing!
SKLAR: Now!
LILLIAS: He can't. He's hurt.
SKLAR: Back away. Get up. (he kicks Neelix) Get up! oh. We're going to have to figure out how to fly this vessel.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, the asteroid is within visual range.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
(A spaceship appears on the viewscreen.)
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: There's a large crew compliment. At least two thousand.
(Chakotay is at Tuvok's station.)
CHAKOTAY: They remodulated their shields to fool our sensors. We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
GOTH [on viewscreen]: The Etanian Order claims this territory. You will withdraw.
JANEWAY: This planet belongs to the Nezu. They have five colonies here.
GOTH [on viewscreen]: You are not Nezu.
JANEWAY: I'm a friend of theirs. Kathryn Janeway. And I'm not going anywhere until you've lowered your weapons.
GOTH [on viewscreen]: You would be willing to die for them? A loyal friend, and a foolish one.
(Transmission ends.)
CHAKOTAY: They'll be here in under ten minutes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.

[Mag-lev carriage]

SKLAR: Why haven't we started?
LILLIAS: If we don't get moving soon the tether couplings will give out and they'll snap. We'll lose mag-lev cohesion.
SKLAR: Then get us moving.
LILLIAS: I can't. I don't know how.
SKLAR: There's the accelerator control. Try it.
LILLIAS: It's too dangerous. We've got to secure the tether first.
SKLAR: Right, you. Go outside and check the couplings. Make sure they haven't been damaged.
HANJUAN: Not me. Besides I wouldn't know where to look.
(Neelix sees Tuvok outside the main door.)
LILLIAS: The only person who knows how to pilot this ship is Neelix.
SKLAR: It can't be that complicated. Keep trying.
LILLIAS: I'm doing my best.
SKLAR: Come on, come on.
(Unobserved, Neelix manages to open the door, and Tuvok enters. The sudden loss of atmosphere makes everyone grab the consoles as Tuvok staggers to Sklar and wrestles him for the phaser. The storage device has fallen to the floor. The phaser falls and Sklar grabs a handy metal rod to hit Tuvok with, but gets kicked out of the carriage instead. Tuvok closes the door and checks Neelix' injuries.)
NEELIX: I'm glad you're all right.
TUVOK: Fortunately I was able to grab hold of an induction coil and climb to safety. Thank you, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: What?
TUVOK: I said thank you, for opening the door.
NEELIX: Don't mention it.
TUVOK: I believe we know now who killed Doctor Vatm.
HANJUAN: But why did he kill him?
TUVOK: The data storage device contains tactical information about an alien starship. Weapons, warp drive, shield modulations. Apparently Sklar did not want us to find it. You have an occipital concussion. I'm afraid my understanding of Talaxian physiology is limited. I cannot treat you.
LILLIAS: I don't know how to do this. We're going to lose cohesion any minute know.
TUVOK: Neelix, we need you.
NEELIX: I don't think I can do it.
TUVOK: You must.
NEELIX: I can barely keep my eyes open.
TUVOK: Do it for Alixia. She would be proud of you.
NEELIX: I'm glad to see your interpersonal skills are improving. You're learning how to motivate people.
(Neelix totters to the controls and gets the carriage moving again.)
NEELIX: Speed, forty five kilometres per hour.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The ship is within range. They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Full power to the shields. Ready phasers.
(Whumph!)
KIM: Shields down to eighty five percent.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
CHAKOTAY: No effect. We can't penetrate their shields.

[Mag-lev carriage]

NEELIX: Hang on! We're breaking through the ionosphere. Engaging induction dampers. We did it. We made it!
(Neelix and Lillias embrace. Hanjuan hugs Tuvok.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway here. Are you all right, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: We're a little busy right now. Prepare to beam aboard.

[Bridge]

KIM: Shields down to twenty three percent. Structural integrity is failing.
TUVOK: Captain, this data device contains tactical information about the enemy vessel, including their shield modulation.
JANEWAY: Adjust our phasers to match. Target their primary reactor.
TUVOK: Ready.
JANEWAY: Fire at will.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Their reactor is offline.
CHAKOTAY: They're remodulating their shields.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array. Fire!
TUVOK: Their weapons have been destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: They're retreating, Captain.
AMBASSADOR: What happened to you down there? Where's Sklar?
NEELIX: Mister Sklar returned to the surface.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix sits with Lillias.)
NEELIX: I've just come from a staff briefing. The people who attacked your colonies, they call themselves the Etanian Order. Apparently they have a unique way of invading other worlds. First they create what appears to be a natural disaster, in your case an asteroid bombardment. Once the population has evacuated, they arrive and stake their claim.
LILLIAS: But they didn't expect Voyager to intervene, so they arrived before our colonies had been evacuated
NEELIX: Exactly.
LILLIAS: What about Doctor Vatm?
NEELIX: From what we could tell, Doctor Vatm found out about the Etanian Order and was secretly collecting information about their starship technology. He also knew that one of your colonists was a traitor, helping the Etanians, feeding your government false information about the asteroids. But he didn't know that it was Sklar. He didn't know who to trust.
LILLIAS: So that's why he tried to hide the data storage device on the roof. The damage to our world could have been much worse. Thank you.
(Tuvok enters.)
TUVOK: I have just received word from the Ambassador. Your sister Halla has been found.
NEELIX: Tell her I said hello.
(Lillias kisses Neelix and leaves.)
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I thought you should know that I have submitted my mission report to the Captain. I've given you a special commendation for your endurance and bravery.
NEELIX: I'm honoured.
TUVOK: Your instincts were correct. However, one day your intuition will fail, and you will finally understand that logic is primary above all else. Instinct is simply another term for serendipity.
NEELIX: And one day, Mister Vulcan, I'll get you to trust your gut.
TUVOK: That is doubtful.
NEELIX: We'll see.
TUVOK: Your attempts have yet to succeed.
NEELIX: You always have to get in that last word, don't you.
TUVOK: I'm simply responding to your erroneous statement.
NEELIX: Something tells me you just hate to lose an argument.
TUVOK: Losing is irrelevant.
NEELIX: See what I mean?
TUVOK: No, I do not.


S3 E20
Favorite Son
Stardate: 50589.1
Original Airdate: 19 March, 1997

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Let's mark the coordinates of that trinary star. It'll be a good reference point for this sector.
KIM: Didn't we already pass a trinary system like this?
CHAKOTAY: Not that I remember. Why?
KIM: It just seems familiar.
TUVOK: Perhaps you're experiencing a paradoxical state-dependant associated phenomenon.
JANEWAY: Deja-vu.
KIM: Yeah, I guess so.
TUVOK: Captain, there is a ship approaching, bearing two one five mark eight.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: Their shields are down and their weapon systems are unpowered.
KIM: They're hailing us.
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: My respects to you. I'm Alben, Captain of the Narada.
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I thought I was familiar with every type of ship in this sector, but I've never seen anything like yours before.
JANEWAY: We're not from around here.
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: In that case, let me welcome you to Nasari territory.
KIM: That ship's going to fire!
CHAKOTAY: What?
KIM: Captain, we've got to defend ourselves.
TUVOK: I am detecting no threat. Tactical control has been moved to the Ops station. Our weapons systems are charging.
KIM: Raising shields and firing phasers.
(Kim blasts a hole through the Narada's starboard wing.)
TUVOK: Direct hit. They are returning fire.
JANEWAY: Red alert!
(The two ships trade phasers and torpedoes.)
JANEWAY: Hail them. We've got to put a stop to this.
KIM: Captain, I had to act quickly.
JANEWAY: You will explain yourself, Mister Kim, but right now you're relieved. Commander, you're at Ops.
TUVOK: They are not responding to hails.

[Engineering]

TORRES: There's pressure building up in plasma conduit G six. Ashmore, open up the emergency vent. I'll try to reroute the plasma flow.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shields are down to seventy percent.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
CHAKOTAY: Warp engines are down.
TUVOK: They are in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering, what's the status of the warp drive?

[Engineering]

TORRES: The plasma injectors are offline, Captain. We're working on them now.
(A conduit blows up in Torres' face.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: A plasma conduit just blew in Engineering. Propulsion systems are down. They're reporting casualties.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array and fire.
TUVOK: They've suffered damage to their weapon systems and shield emitters. They are moving away.
JANEWAY: I want to know exactly what you thought you were doing.
KIM: Their weapons were charging. They were about to fire at us. We could have been destroyed.
TUVOK: Sensor logs indicate that their weapon systems were not powered.
KIM: Then they must have fooled our sensors somehow. I detected a tetryon surge coming from their ship.
TUVOK: There are many sources of increased tetryon emissions. It may have been an irregularity in their warp field.
KIM: No! It was their weapons. That whole welcome to Nasari territory was a trick.
CHAKOTAY: How could you know that?
KIM: I can't explain that. I just knew. I was only trying to protect the ship.
JANEWAY: I trust your intentions, Ensign, but your actions are going to need a little more justification. I want you to analyse the sensor logs, and see if there's any basis for Mister Kim's hunch.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: In the meantime I'm suspending you from duty. Go to Sickbay. Let the Doctor have a look at that cut.

[Sickbay]

(Torres is on a biobed, unconscious.)
KES: Still no respiration. Her blood pressure's ninety over forty and dropping.
EMH: She has second degree burns on her lungs. I'll need to do a pulmonary regeneration.
KES: Her neural tissues are starting to degenerate.
EMH: Oxygen deprivation. We've got to get her breathing. Try ten milligrammes pulmazine.
KES: No effect.
EMH: Twenty milligrammes.
(Torres gasps.)
KIM: Is she going to be all right?
EMH: Yes. Another patient snatched from the jaws of death.
KES: Let me take care of that.
KIM: B'Elanna almost got killed. It's my fault.
KES: What do you mean?
KIM: I started that fight. I thought I was doing the right thing. For a moment I was absolutely sure.
KES: And now you're not?
KIM: It's fading. What I did, and how I felt. It doesn't make any sense. And it could have been worse. What if they'd been more powerful than we were? I could have gotten everyone killed.
KES: But none of that happened. B'Elanna got hurt, but she'll recover. Harry, you can't undo what's been done.
KIM: You're right. Thanks.

[Kim's dream]

(Memories interspersed with a view of a planet from space.)
KIM: Raising shields and firing phasers. I can't explain it. I just knew. I never wanted you to get hurt.
TORRES: That's supposed to make me feel better?
KIM: I'm sorry.
KIM'S MOTHER: Harry, I'm here. Don't worry, you'll feel better soon. I can make some soup for you, would you like that? I won't go away anywhere as long as you need me. We raised you to be a responsible boy.
KIM: I try to be.
KIM'S MOTHER: I'm suspending you from duty.
KIM: Mom!
(Kim wakes and goes to wash his face. He discovers interesting blotches around his hair and jaw lines.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Well, the good news is I won't have to quarantine you. There's no sign of an infectious agent anywhere in your body.
KIM: And the bad news?
EMH: If I don't find the cause of this rash, it will be difficult to treat.
KIM: Last night I had a dream about being sick with the Mendakan pox when I was nine. Do you think this could be a recurrence?
EMH: I've never considered dreams as a diagnostic tool before. Your unconscious mind sensed these developing symptoms and tried to provide an explanation? Such recurrences of this particular illness are rare, but I will consider the possibility. Hmm.
KIM: What?
EMH: In addition to your visible symptoms, your blood chemistry has been slightly altered.
KIM: Is that serious?
EMH: No, but it's not consistent with the symptoms of the Mendakan pox.
KIM: Doctor, you don't think there could be any psychological effects from this disease, do you?
EMH: Such as?
KIM: I've been having this strange deja-vu feeling. Then yesterday on the Bridge I had this sudden instinct, and I acted on it by firing without orders.
EMH: I'd certainly call that atypical behaviour. Your scans haven't shown any neurological abnormalities, but I will run a closer analysis.
KES: Doctor, she's regaining consciousness.
EMH: Good morning, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Morning? What am I doing here?
KES: There was an accident in Engineering. A plasma conduit exploded.
EMH: I've treated you for second and third degree burns and several broken ribs. I expect you'll make a full recovery
TORRES: Ow!
EMH: after you've spent at least one more day in Sickbay.
TORRES: This time Doctor, I'm not going to argue with you. Harry, what happened to your face?
KIM: We're still trying to figure that out.
TORRES: It's kind of cute. Makes you look like a speckled targ.
KIM: B'Elanna, I'm really sorry you got hurt.
TORRES: Hey, it's all part of the adventure of space travel, right?
KIM: I know, but, er
TORRES: What. What is it?
KIM: Never mind. I'm glad you're going to be all right.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: I'm afraid I'm going to have to cut visiting hour short. Ensign, you can go. I'll contact you with the results of my analysis.
KIM: Take care of yourself.
TORRES: See you later, Spot.

[Ready room]

KIM: Captain, I accept full responsibility for my mistake. I was completely out of line, even if I believed that other ship was charging weapons, which they probably weren't.
JANEWAY: Harry, they were charging weapons.
KIM: I was right.
JANEWAY: Tuvok has confirmed that the tetryon surge matched the energy signature of that particulate beam they shot at us. They would have taken us completely by surprise.
KIM: As soon as I saw their ship, I felt this sudden suspicion and loathing. I knew we were in trouble.
JANEWAY: Which brings us back to the larger question.
KIM: How did I know? I really wish I could tell you, Captain, but for the past few days this area of space has seemed more and more familiar to me. If I didn't know it was impossible, I'd swear I've been here before.
JANEWAY: We'll have to consider every possible explanation.
KIM: Oh, believe me, I have been. Space-time anomalies, alien telepathy, alternate realities. The list gets weirder as it goes on.
JANEWAY: Then there's your sudden illness, which may not be a coincidence.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway. There are three ships approaching of the same configuration as the Nasari vessel.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They'll intercept in thirty six minutes.
JANEWAY: Can we outrun them?
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. Engineering's still working on repairs. We could manage warp three at best.
KIM: Let me see a star chart of this region. Head for this system. I think we can make it.
JANEWAY: Is this another hunch, Ensign?
KIM: We'll be safe there, I'm sure of it.
JANEWAY: Tactical status.
TUVOK: The aft shield emitter is offline, phasers are operational, but torpedo launchers are not. I strongly advise against a confrontation.
JANEWAY: Follow Harry's course. Speed, as fast as we can go.
(Later -)
TUVOK: The Nasari vessels will overtake us in two minutes.
CHAKOTAY: We're coming up on that star system. We'll pass it if we stay at warp.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. We're making our stand here.
CHAKOTAY: They'll enter weapons range in a few seconds.
(On the viewscreen is the planet from Kim's dream.)
KIM: Taresia.
JANEWAY: What does that mean? Do you know this place?
KIM: Yes. It was in my dream.
TUVOK: There is another ship approaching from the third planet.
CHAKOTAY: Is it Nasari?
TUVOK: No, but they're on an intercept course and their weapons are fully powered.
JANEWAY: Prepare for evasive manoeuvres.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
KIM: We'll be all right.
(The new ship passes Voyager, firing at the Nasari.)
TUVOK: The unidentified vessel has disabled all the Nasari ships. They are retreating.
CHAKOTAY: What's your next trick, Harry. Pull a shuttlecraft out of a hat?
JANEWAY: Open a channel to that ship.
KIM: They're already hailing us.
LYRIS [on viewscreen]: Alien vessel, this is the Taresian starship. There you are! Our sensors detected you aboard your ship. I'm glad to see you're safe.
KIM: Do you know me?
LYRIS [on viewscreen]: In a way. I know you are one of my people.
KIM: What?
LYRIS [on viewscreen]: You're Taresian. Welcome home.

Captain's log 50732.4. The Taresians have escorted us back to their homeworld so we can continue to investigate their claim that Ensign Kim is a member of their race.

[Taresia]

(The away team of Janeway, Tuvok, Kim and Paris are greeted by a phalanx of women.)
LYRIS: Welcome. We're so glad to have you here. This is a day of celebration. Another Taresian has returned.
ELIANN: Welcome.
MALIA: You're home now, Harry.
KIM: Er, wait a minute. I still don't understand how this is possible.
JANEWAY: We'd like to ask some questions before we start celebrating.
LYRIS: Of course.
KIM: Our Doctor has found some genetic fragments in my DNA which could be part of an alien genetic structure.
LYRIS: Yes, those are part of your Taresian genes. They're becoming active. We'd be happy to provide your Doctor with some DNA samples for comparison.
KIM: What I want to know is how I could have gotten them.
LYRIS: You were conceived here, on this world. While you were still an embryo, you were placed in stasis and taken to Earth to be implanted in the womb of an Earth woman.
KIM: My mother. What did you do to her?
LYRIS: She would have been completely unaware of the procedure. After the implantation process, the child begins to incorporate some DNA from the surrogate parent. You developed physically as a human, so she would have thought you were her natural child.
KIM: But you're saying I'm not.
(The only other male there speaks. He has two adoring women hanging on his arms.)
TAYMON: We understand how you feel. Everyone here was born on other worlds. We all found our way back home like you, and discovered we're not quite who we thought we were.
RINNA: Harry, maybe you'd like to sit down.
ELIANN: Why don't you go get him something to drink?
TUVOK: All of your children are born to alien parents?
LYRIS: Yes, and when they return, each child brings an infusion of new genetic material as well as of first hand experience about another culture.
JANEWAY: But Harry wasn't trying to return here. We came to the Delta Quadrant by accident.
LYRIS: His DNA was encoded with certain instincts, including the desire to explore space. Your accident may have brought him here faster, but he always would have been driven to find his way back. You are the first to return from such a great distance.
(Rinna gives Kim a small cup of liquid, and he strokes her cheek.)
PARIS: Harry.
KIM: That's how Taresians say thank you, isn't it? But how could I know so much about a place I've never been?
LYRIS: It's been encoded into your Taresian genes. As you've gotten closer to home and seen familiar sights, your dormant genetic memory has been reawakened.
RINNA: You'll remember more about us as you spend time here.
ELIANN: I know it all seems strange now, but you are one of us, Harry. Can't you feel it?
KIM: Yes, I can.
ELIANN: Then stay with us a while and celebrate. Come, have something to eat.
PARIS: Is this the standard welcome home reception?
TAYMON: For males it is. They're very rare. Our population is ninety percent female.
PARIS: Really?
JANEWAY: I want to thank you again for your help in combating the Nasari. Do you have any idea why they tried to attack us?
LYRIS: They probably detected a Taresian aboard your ship as we did. For the Nasari, that's reason enough to destroy you.
TUVOK: Are your people at war?
LYRIS: We have no interest in fighting with them, but they seem determined to destroy us. Our defence capabilities prevent them from attacking directly, but they do everything in their power to stop our people from returning home.
TUVOK: I see. That might explain Mister Kim's instinctively hostile reaction to them.
LYRIS: It's a defence mechanism we've programmed into all our children.
JANEWAY: Are the Nasari likely to attack us again when we leave your space.
LYRIS: I think eventually they'll tire of waiting for you to come out. In the meantime, I'd advise you to simply stay here for a while.
(Kim looks at the carvings in the coping around the room.)
KIM: These are words.
RINNA: Can you read them?
KIM: Almost.
ELIANN: Our written language is very complicated. I can teach it to you if you're interested.
PARIS: Ah, that looks good. What is it?
MALIA: Spiced hatana. I prepared it myself. Harry, try some.
KIM: I'd like to find out if I have any relatives here. Maybe talk to my biological parents.
ELIANN: I'm afraid none of us get the chance to meet our fathers. They're the ones who take the embryos to other worlds. Your father must have left here a very long time ago to make it all the way to the Alpha Quadrant.
TUVOK: Ensign, we're transporting back to the ship.
KIM: I'd like to stay for a while. I still have a lot of questions.
JANEWAY: Of course, Harry. Contact us when you're ready.
PARIS: We'll see you later.

[Doctor's office]

(Molecular scan 4077, of course.)
EMH: It's a positive match. These genetic fragments within Ensign Kim's DNA are clearly Taresian.
JANEWAY: Why haven't they shown up in his medical scans before?
EMH: I went back and checked his scans carefully. These fragments have apparently been disguising themselves as the recessive elements which normally within all DNA, but over the past few days they've become increasingly dominant over his human genes.
TUVOK: And they've provided him with new knowledge?
EMH: Yes, by forming neural connections in his brain. All humanoid babies are born with certain instinctive knowledge. How to recognise the shape of a face, how to hold their breath underwater. It all comes from their genes.
JANEWAY: The Taresians must have found a way to manipulate genetic material to implant very specific knowledge into their children.
EMH: It's scientifically plausible, but quite a feat of genetic engineering.
JANEWAY: So what the Taresians have been telling us appears to be true. Harry is one of their people.
EMH: And he's becoming more like them every day, both physically and neurologically.
JANEWAY: I wonder how that's going to influence him when Voyager's ready to leave? Of course, when that might happen is another question entirely. Are the Nasari still out there?

[Sickbay]

TUVOK: All three ships are holding position just outside the Taresian system.
JANEWAY: Even if we can wait them out, we'd only be postponing another conflict. I'd much rather find a way to convince them we're not their enemies.
TUVOK: Apparently the Nasari only consider Ensign Kim their enemy. Perhaps they would be more receptive to diplomacy if he were not aboard.
JANEWAY: Contact Harry. Let him know we'll be leaving orbit. With any luck, we'll be back in a few hours with this matter resolved.

[Taresia]

TAYMON: I joined the merchant fleet so I could get into space, because I wanted to explore every quarter of the galaxy.
KIM: Like me with Starfleet. All my life, that's all I ever wanted to do. Now I guess I know why. Strange to think that some alien DNA fragments have been controlling my life.
TAYMON: Not controlling. Influencing, yes. You probably inherited some Taresian traits like a talent for math or music.
KIM: Yes, I always wondered why I loved music so much when my parents, my human parents, were practically tone deaf.
(The girls inject Taymon with a hypospray, then go to Kim.)
KIM: Wait, wait a minute. What is that?
RINNA: Something to make you feel good.
TAYMON: It's just a mild mood enhancer. No side effects. You'll like it.
KIM: I think I'll pass, thanks.
TAYMON: This is Malia. She's going to be my first wife.
KIM: First?
TAYMON: Ah ha.
KIM: And you're already planning on a second?
MALIA: And a third. We'll all be joined with Taymon tonight. What do humans call it when a man and women are joined?
KIM: It's called marriage, but it's usually one woman with one man.
MALIA: How unusual. I hope you come to our ceremony.
KIM: I wouldn't miss it.
TAYMON: Don't be afraid to indulge yourself, Harry. Everybody here wants you to be happy. You're important to us.
KIM: That's what my human parents used to say to me. How special I was. They'd been trying to have a baby for years until I came along. They called me their miracle child.
TAYMON: They were right.
KIM: They spoiled me rotten, making sacrifices so they could give me everything I wanted.
TAYMON: Sounds like you were pretty lucky. They loved you.
KIM: But I never felt like I deserved that kind of devotion. I didn't see what was so special about me. I used to imagine that I had these hidden powers. I'd grow up to be stronger than a Klingon or able to read people's minds. Anything to make me more than just an average kid.
TAYMON: Turns out your parents were right about you. You have been special all of your life. Feels pretty good, doesn't it?
KIM: Yeah, it does.
ELIANN: Let me relax your muscles for you.
KIM: That would be great.
TAYMON: I think you're going to learn to like it here, Harry.
KIM: I already like it.
ELIANN: Enough to stay?
KIM: I don't know about that. I'm happy where I am on Voyager.
ELIANN: You could be happy here, too.
TAYMON: It's nothing you have to decide right now. Just enjoy yourself while you're here.
ELIANN: This uniform seems so restrictive. Why don't you let me find you something more comfortable?
KIM: Thanks. I mean (strokes her cheek.)

[Bridge]

(Voyager is surrounded by the Nasari ships.)
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I agree with you completely, Captain. There's no reason for further hostility between us.
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it, and I hope you'll still feel that way when Ensign Kim is back on board.
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I doubt we'll face that problem. Your crewmember won't be returning to you.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: No one who comes home to Taresia ever leaves again. There are rumours about those people.
JANEWAY: I'm not interested in hearsay. Are there any facts you can give me?
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I fire on any Taresian I see. If you take your crewmember back on board, I will attack your ship. My best advice to you is to forget him and be on your way.
(Transmission ends.)
CHAKOTAY Do you think there's any truth to those rumours he mentioned?
JANEWAY: I don't know, but I'll feel better when we've got Harry back. Set a course back to the planet.
(Later.)
TUVOK: Captain, sensors indicate a high density polaron grid surrounding the planet.
JANEWAY: Polaron grid? It wasn't here before.
TUVOK: A network of satellites was activated to generate it.
CHAKOTAY: Can we get through the grid?
TUVOK: Unlikely. The polaric density is too high.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: Our communications are being blocked.
CHAKOTAY: I guess we're not welcome anymore.

[Taresia]

(The room is darkened. Women enter bearing staffs. Eliann lights candles.)
ELIANN: Don't worry, you'll remember everything you need to know about the ceremony once it begins.
(Taymon walks up to his three brides, who are wearing red veils.)
TAYMON: Amal ulat. Let us be joined.
(Everyone circles, clashing staffs occasionally. Taymon is marked with henna and blindfolded, and has his wrists tied behind his back.)
MALIA: The joining is complete.
(His wives lead Taymon away. The lights come on.)
KIM: Why did they tie him like that?
ELIANN: It's tradition. It symbolises binding their lives together, no longer looking for anyone else. Do you find it exciting?
KIM: I guess I hadn't really thought of it that way.
RINNA: You are going to stay for the celebration, aren't you?
KIM: Actually, I should check in with Voyager. They'll be back by now. Kim to Voyager. This is Ensign Kim calling Voyager, do you read?
LYRIS: Harry, I'm glad you could be here for this.
KIM: It's been interesting. I was wondering if there's been any word from Voyager.
LYRIS: Not that I know of. They probably haven't returned yet.
KIM: It's been a long time. I hope they didn't run into trouble with the Nasari.
LYRIS: Try not to worry. Your Captain may need some time to convince those people to see reason.
KIM: Maybe so.
LYRIS: Come, join the celebration while you wait. And of course you're welcome to stay the night.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: We've been able to poke some holes in the tachyon grid but they're too small to squeeze Voyager through.
JANEWAY: Could a shuttle make it?
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. And even if one could, there's another problem. A Taresian ship is patrolling the other side of the grid.

[Doctor's office]

JANEWAY: And we saw what they can do.
EMH: Ah, Captain. When you raised some concerns regarding the Taresians, I began questioning their story about Ensign Kim's birth.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd confirmed that he has Taresian DNA.
EMH: I did, and he does. At least, he does now. But when I checked his previous microcellular scans, I found no traces of the Taresian genetic fragments. I can only conclude that he wasn't born with them.
CHAKOTAY: Their whole story about embryo implantation was a lie. He's human.
EMH: Yes, although maybe not for long. The alien DNA is continuing to alter his genetic structure. Within a few days he'll be indistinguishable from a native Taresian.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea how this new DNA could have gotten into his cells?
EMH: The most likely transfer method would be a retrovirus. He was probably exposed during an away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Wouldn't the biofilters pick up the virus and eliminate it?
EMH: They may very well have, but once the virus transferred the DNA into his cells, killing the messenger wouldn't have helped.
JANEWAY: Is there any way to determine exactly when he was infected?
EMH: Indeed there is. The transporter buffer performs it's own version of a microcellular scan every time someone uses it. I reviewed the logs and found the first appearance of the alien genes in his molecular pattern on stardate 50698.
CHAKOTAY: Our away mission to that planet where we found the vorillium. Harry was with us, and he was separated from the group for a while.
EMH: He might have been infected by something he ate or drank, even something he touched.
JANEWAY: So Harry gets infused with alien DNA which gives him the instinctive urge to come here. Then the Taresians tell him this elaborate story to make him believe he was one of them. Why?
CHAKOTAY: Don't forget that welcoming committee on the planet. It sounds as if they're giving him every incentive to want to stay on Taresia.
JANEWAY: And by keeping us away, they're making the decision for him.

[Kim's room]

ELIANN: Here you are. I hope you'll be comfortable here. Is there anything else that I can get for you?
KIM: No, I'll be fine, thanks. Goodnight.
ELIANN: Get into bed.
KIM: You're going to tuck me in?
ELIANN: Tuck you in?
KIM: It's a human custom. Parents tuck their children into bed, tell them a story or sing a lullaby to them to help them get to sleep.
(Eliann dims the lights and fetches a small pot from the dressing table.)
ELIANN: That's sweet. Lie back and relax. Lekaria san. Do you understand?
KIM: Pleasant dreams.
(She kisses him.)
ELIANN: Now close your eyes.
(She anoints his face with oil from the pot.)
KIM: Mmm, that smells good.
ELIANN: It's the essence of rikka flowers, it's very soothing. Lekaria san. (more kisses) Goodnight, Harry.

[Kim's dream]

LYRIS [OC]: You're Taresian. Welcome home.
ELIANN: I think you'll like it here, Harry.
CHAKOTAY: We've been lucky to have you, Harry.
JANEWAY: You really have been special all your life.
KIM'S MOTHER: You know where your real home is, Harry.
ELIANN: I think you'll like it here, Harry. Stay with me.
(They fall onto his bed on Voyager to make love. Rinna is there, too. Eliann blindfolds Kim.)

[Kim's room]

(Eliann and Rinna are with Kim on his bed.)
ELIANN: It's all right, it's all right. You were dreaming.
KIM: What are you doing here?
ELIANN: We just want to help you relax and enjoy yourself.
KIM: Look, I appreciate the offer, but I'd really rather be alone.
ELIANN: I don't believe that. I think you've been spending too many nights alone, Harry.
RINNA: You've got to stop holding yourself back. I know you have the same natural desires as any Taresian. Now you're free to act on them.
ELIANN: You can't fight genetics.
KIM: I can try.
(He puts his boots back on.)
ELIANN: I want you to choose me, Harry.
RINNA: Choose both of us, then you'll only have to find one more wife.
KIM: I'm not joining with you or with anybody.
ELIANN: But that's the reason why you were drawn back home, Harry. To have children. Listen to your instincts.
KIM: No. Like I told you before, I'm going back to Voyager.
RINNA: You could never be as valuable to them as you are to us. We need you.
ELIANN: You have a responsibility to your people to pass on your genes to the next generation. If there's anything your Taresian genes have given you, it's a sense of duty and loyalty.
KIM: My loyalty is to my crew and my family back home.
ELIANN: You don't belong with them anymore. This is who you are. One of us. Your place is here.
RINNA: We'll make you glad you stayed. Think of Taymon, how happy he's been. Let yourself be happy.
ELIANN: It's the right choice, Harry. This is the life you were always meant to have.
(Rinna gives Kim a long, slow kiss.)
KIM: Maybe this life wouldn't be so terrible.
RINNA: It will be wonderful. You'll have everything you ever wanted, and a place of honour among your people.
ELIANN: You'll never be alone again, Harry. We'll make sure of that.
KIM: Three wives. I've got to think about my choice.
ELIANN: I know you're attracted to me. There's been a connection between us since the moment you got here.
KIM: You're right. I felt it too. I'm definitely considering you as one of my wives.
(Kim sits Eliann on a chair, then takes Rinna's sash.)
ELIANN: What are you doing?
(Kim ties her arms behind her, then gags her.)
KIM: Well, it's like you said before. This could be exciting. Remember, you both want to make me happy, don't you?
RINNA: This is some kind of trick.
(She goes to untie Eliann, so Kim hits her over the head with a vase.)
KIM: Sorry about that.

[Outside Taymon's room]

KIM: Taymon, it's Harry. I really need your help.

[Taymon's room]

(Kim forces the doors open.)
KIM: Are you in there?
(He turns on the lights to discover a desiccated corpse on the bed, still with the blindfold on. He hears the door controls being operated, and grabs a metal instrument from the bedside table.)
KIM: So this is what I should expect on my honeymoon?
MALIA: It would have been much easier for you if you hadn't seen this.
KIM: You mean easier for you to lead me to the slaughter. What'd you do to Taymon?
MALIA: We must nucleate a large number of cells to collect enough genetic material for conception.
KIM: That's why there are no men here. They don't leave with their embryos in stasis. They're killed.
MALIA: Any father should be willing to sacrifice himself for the sake of his children, for the continuation of his race.
KIM: Was anything you told me true? About Taresians being born on other worlds? About my being one of you?
MALIA: It's true male children are very rare here, and that we seek out new DNA to sustain our race. We need males of other species, like you, who can be transformed into compatible mates.
KIM: Transformed. That's what these genes are doing to me.
MALIA: You'll be celebrated for your contribution.
KIM: Don't count on it. You're going to take me to a communications terminal where I can contact my ship.
(He takes her hostage. The other two wives enter.)
KIM: Stay out of my way!
MALIA: This won't work. You're too important to us. Whatever happens to me, they won't allow you to leave.
(Kim pushes Malia into the other two, then runs out.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: If we hit the grid here, we'll have a few seconds before the patrol ship can move in to intercept us.
JANEWAY: That doesn't give you much time to get a lock on Harry.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll have to be quick.
JANEWAY: Are the shields ready?
TUVOK: The new configuration is stable.
JANEWAY: Set a course for the target coordinates and engage at full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: We're disrupting the grid, but we need more speed to overcome the inertial resistance.
PARIS: Increasing power. We're clear.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not picking up Harry's comm. signal. Initiating level one bioscans of the surface.
TUVOK: Captain, the Taresian ship is on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.

[Taresia]

(Kim is surrounded by women with staves, and they know how to fight with quarterstaffs.)
LYRIS: This could have been a joyous occasion. Amal ulat!
KIM: I won't let you do this to me!
LYRIS: Harry, there's nowhere to go.
(Then he gets beamed up.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We've got him.
PARIS: Setting a new course.
TUVOK: The Taresians are in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
PARIS: Captain, we've another problem. Three Nasari ships coming straight at us.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept?
PARIS: Less than one minute.
JANEWAY: Harry.
KIM: Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Welcome back. We could use your strategic intuition about now.
JANEWAY: I'm counting on the Taresians not to back off from those Nasari ships.
KIM: They won't.
JANEWAY: Good. Let's hope they're more interested in fighting with each other than with us.
PARIS: Five seconds to intercept.
(Voyager sails past the fight.)
TUVOK: We are no longer being pursued.
JANEWAY: Let's not give them a chance to change their mind.

[Mess hall]

KIM: But Odysseus had been warned that these women, the Sirens, sang a song so beautiful that any man who heard it would be lured to his death.
NEELIX: So how did he get the ship past them?
KIM: He told his crew to cover their ears so they couldn't hear the Siren's song. But he also had them tie him to the mast of the ship so he could listen himself without being led astray as they sailed past.
PARIS: Anyone would have been drawn in by these Taresians. I have never seen so many beautiful women in my life.
KIM: It wasn't just the women. There was also something exciting about having a new identity, and being more than just young Ensign Kim.
NEELIX: Well I for one am glad to have the young Ensign Kim back with us. Although I still say you should have kept some of those spots. I thought they were very distinguished.
PARIS: I don't see what's so bad about being you. You're good at your job, everybody likes you.
KIM: Being likeable is fine, but sometimes I wish I could be more, oh, confident with women. More like you.
PARIS: Like me? You might want to reconsider that, Harry. There could be prison time involved. Actually, since I've been on Voyager, I've tried to be more like you.
KIM: That'll be the day.
PARIS: I'm serious. You're my role model. You're reliable, hard working, extremely punctual. Did I mention polite?
KIM: Thanks a lot.


S3 E21
Before And After
Stardate: 50601.9
Original Airdate: 9th April, 1997

EMH [OC]: Activate the bio-temporal chamber.
[Sickbay, 2379]

(A young man, a young woman in a Starfleet uniform, and the EMH with hair are gathered around a biobed.)
ANDREW: Is she going to be all right?
EMH: Not if you don't all clear out of here and let me do my work.
LINNIS: She's my mother. I'm staying.
EMH: This is a very delicate procedure, and I could use some peace and quiet.
PARIS [OC]: The Doctor's right. Let him do his work.
LINNIS: All right.
(Andrew and Linnis leave.)
EMH: I wish I'd told you this before, but better late than never. You're the finest friend I've ever had. Prepare to bring the bio-temporal chamber online. We'll begin in approximately five minutes.
(Earlier)
ANDREW: Grandma? Are you awake? I brought you a present. Grandma Kes? I finally finished your birthday present. Sorry it's late, but I wanted to get it right.
KES: I don't know you.
ANDREW: What do you mean? I'm Andrew, your grandson.
KES: I don't know you.
ANDREW: Doctor? Doctor Van Gogh?
EMH: What is it?
ANDREW: She doesn't recognise me.
EMH: Kes? How are you feeling?
KES: Where am I? What is this place?
EMH: You're in Sickbay. Do you know who I am?
KES: No. Yes. I've seen you before.
EMH: Do you know my name?
KES: The boy, he called you Doctor Van Gogh.
EMH: That's right.
KES: You said I was your finest friend.
EMH: Well, I'm not sure I've ever said that, exactly, but, that doesn't mean it's not true.
KES: How could I be your friend? I don't know you.
EMH: Tell me what you do remember.
KES: Er, people around me, crowded around me. You, the boy, a young girl. I was in a chamber. A bio-temporal chamber.
EMH: Good.
KES: I was inside it and you told someone to activate it.
EMH: I'm afraid you're confused. I discussed the bio-temporal chamber with you, but we're not ready to put you inside it just yet. Can you recall anything else, besides those people you saw? Anything else about your life?
KES: No.
EMH: Go find the rest of your family.
(Chakotay enters as Andrew runs out.)
CHAKOTAY: Whoa, whoa, whoa. What's the big hurry?
ANDREW: I'm sorry, Captain, I have to go.
CHAKOTAY: What was that all about?
EMH: I'm afraid Kes is getting worse, Captain. Her amnesia is near total. Fewer than one percent of her engrams remain intact. It's as if her memory were wiped clean.
CHAKOTAY: Is it some sort of senility?
EMH: Maybe. I've never treated a nine year old Ocampan before. For all I know, it's a perfectly normal part of their aging process.
CHAKOTAY: It's hard to believe that she performed microsurgery on my elbow just a few weeks ago.
EMH: A few weeks ago she was a healthy woman, but this morilogium comes on abruptly and then progresses with a rapidity I've never seen before.
CHAKOTAY: How are you coming along with the bio-temporal chamber?
EMH: As I told you, it's a completely revolutionary procedure. I have no idea if it'll work. Under normal circumstances I'd want to perform extensive tests on the apparatus, but we're losing her too fast. If I don't try it now, it may be too late.
CHAKOTAY: If you really believe it will prolong her life?
EMH: If we're lucky it may buy her another year.
CHAKOTAY: I think you have the family's consent. You should go ahead and do it.
KES: So cold. I'm cold.
EMH: No wonder. Your temperature has dropped to fourteen point eight, almost two degrees below normal.
CHAKOTAY: What does that mean?
EMH: I'm not sure.
CHAKOTAY? What?
EMH: Her cells are in a state of bio-temporal flux. I don't understand how that could be happening before I put her in the chamber.
KES: I'm cold.

[Kes's quarters]

(Kes wakes up in her own bed. There is a picture next to it, of a younger her holding a baby. She gets up and sees her reflection in a mirror.)
ANDREW [OC]: Look mom, I'm almost finished with Grandma's present.
LINNIS [OC]: It's wonderful, sweetheart. I'm sure Grandma will think it was well worth the wait.
ANDREW [OC]: I hope so. I still feel bad for not having it ready in time for her party.
(Kes goes into the main living room.)
LINNIS: Hello. How was your nap?
KES: Andrew?
ANDREW: Grandma, don't look. You'll spoil the surprise.
LINNIS: Why don't you sit down. I'll get you some tea.
KES: Where am I?
LINNIS: In your quarters.
KES: What quarters?
LINNIS: Aboard Voyager. What's wrong?
KES: I don't know who you are. But you, I know who you are. Tell me what's happening. How did I get here?
LINNIS: Andrew, get your grandfather and father. Tell them to meet us in Sickbay.
KES: Yes, Sickbay. I remember that place. I was just there.
LINNIS: When?
KES: Just a few minutes ago. Doctor Van Gogh asked me some questions. I couldn't remember anything.
LINNIS: You haven't been to Sickbay for over a week, since you stopped working there.
KES: Working? What kind of work?
LINNIS: Don't you remember? You were one of the ship's doctors. I worked there with you.
KES: Who are you?
LINNIS: I'm your daughter, Linnis.

[Corridor]

KES: But I don't remember you.
LINNIS: Do you remember anything at all?
KES: Just people crowded around me. Voices. The Doctor told everyone to leave and then he told someone else to activate the bio-temporal chamber.
LINNIS: He's been working on that. He may have mentioned it to you.
KES: And then I woke up and there was a boy, Andrew, standing over me with a present, calling me Grandma.
LINNIS: Andrew hasn't finished your present yet. You just saw him still working on it in your quarters.
KES: But he was there. The Doctor sent him to get my family, and I was cold and I woke up in that bed in the quarters, and
LINNIS: Maybe you were dreaming.
KES: I don't think so.
LINNIS: Well, none of the things you remember before waking from your nap have happened.
KES: How do you know?
LINNIS: Listen to me, mother. You're confused right now and I'm sure that's very frightening, but you need to trust me. I'm your daughter and I love you. Now please, come with me. Come.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've been expecting this.
LINNIS: The onset of morilogium.
EMH: She's lost more than ninety eight percent of her memory engrams.
KES: Morilogium?
LINNIS: The final phase of the Ocampan lifespan, mother.
KES: Are you saying that I'm dying?
EMH: Not if l can help it.
LINNIS: What do you mean?
(Paris and Kim enter.)
PARIS: Kes, it's me, Tom. Your husband.
EMH: Tom, we're losing her.
PARIS: How long?
EMH: If we do nothing, a matter of weeks. But I'm working on something to extend her lifespan. It involves treating her with a bio-temporal field in order to push her cells back to an earlier stage of entropic decay.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: It's highly experimental, but if it works, it might buy her some time.
LINNIS: No. My mother's always accepted that she would only live nine years. If she's reaching the natural end of her life she wouldn't want extraordinary measures taken to extend it. Especially not in the state she's in now.
PARIS: If the Doctor has a way to keep your mother with us, even for one more day, we have to let him try.
LINNIS: We're not talking about a tested medical procedure here, we're talking about a radical experiment.
KIM: Sweetheart, I understand how upsetting this is, but if it were you on that biobed, I'd feel just like Tom does.
KES: Everyone listen to me, please.
ANDREW: Yes, listen to her.
LINNIS: Mother, tell us what you want.
KES: I want to know what's going on here. Maybe the morilogium is causing my amnesia, but that doesn't explain how I seem to suddenly jump from Sickbay to my quarters, or how I remember being in a bio-temporal chamber.
EMH: Kes, it's possible the morilogium is causing you to experience delusions.
KES: No. They're not delusions.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I want you to lie down.
KES: No.
ANDREW: Leave her alone.
KIM: Your grandmother's very sick, son.
ANDREW: Maybe, but she's not delusional. She's the smartest person I know. We should listen to her.
KES: I'm cold.
EMH: Her body temperature has dropped two point seven degrees.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix, in Starfleet uniform, is bringing out a blue-covered cake.)
ALL [singing]: For she's a jolly good fellow, for she's a jolly good fellow, for she's a jolly good fellow, which nobody can deny.
NEELIX: Happy ninth, Kes. Go ahead, make a wish. Well, what are you waiting for? Blow out the candles. It's good to see that old lung is still working, Kessie.
PARIS: Happy birthday, sweetheart.
NEELIX: Well, you know, I haven't made one of these since, well, since I became security officer.
TUVOK: Perhaps you would care to relinquish your commission and return to the scene of your former triumphs.
NEELIX: You keep working on that sense of humour, Commander Vulcan. You'll get it one of these days. Jibelian fudge, your favourite. Some of us ought to be watching our calories, but after all, it is a special occasion.
KES: Andrew.
ANDREW: I'm sorry I don't have a present for you, grandma. I've got an idea for something special I'm going to make, but I've been too busy with school work, I haven't had a chance to start it.
KES: I think it'll be worth the wait. Come and talk to grandma for a minute, will you?
ANDREW: Sure.
KES: I'm going to ask you a few questions and I want you to think very carefully before you answer them, all right?
ANDREW: I always think before I speak. You taught me that.
KES: Where were you before you came to this party?
ANDREW: At my physics lesson in Engineering.
KES: And then you came directly here?
ANDREW: No, I stopped at your quarters to get you. Don't you remember?
EMH: Andrew, stop monopolising your grandmother's time. There are other people who'd like to wish her happy birthday, you know.
ANDREW: She's all yours, Doctor. Excuse me. That cake looks great.
EMH: It's amazing to think that you weren't even a year old when we first met. Not much older than Andrew.
KES: Doctor, there's something wrong with me.
EMH: What is it?
KES: Promise to hear me out and not assume I'm delusional.
EMH: Why do you think I'd ever make such an assumption?
KES: Promise!
EMH: Of course.
KES: I've lost all but a few of my memories, and the memories I do have don't coincide with anyone else's.
EMH: Can you be more specific?
KES: Well, I was in Sickbay, and you and a woman, my daughter, were arguing about prolonging my life. And then I suddenly appeared in my quarters and then I simply appeared here.
EMH: As far as I know, none of that happened. Is it possible you were dreaming?
KES: No. I was awake, I'm sure of it. But nobody else remembers the things I do.
EMH: I hate to say this, but it's possible these strange experiences you're having are related to the onset of the morilogium.
KES: You talked about that. You wanted to put me in a bio-temporal chamber to stop my aging process.
EMH: How could you possibly know about that?
KES: Because you told me.
EMH: I only came up with the idea for the bio-temporal chamber this morning. I was going to tell you about it today, here at the party, as a sort of birthday surprise.
KES: If that were true, then how could I already know about it.
EMH: I don't know, but we'd better get you to Sickbay and find out.

[Sickbay]

(Paris and Chakotay are also there.)
EMH: She appears to have lost more than ninety five percent of her memory engrams.
PARIS: Is that symptomatic of the morilogium?
EMH: I don't know. I have no basis for comparison. No other Ocampans on board.
PARIS: Don't worry, we'll get to the bottom of this.
KES: I do have memories, they just don't coincide with anyone else's. First Andrew gave me a belated birthday present, then he said he was working on the present, and now he just apologised for not starting it yet.
PARIS: It's almost as if you're experiencing events in reverse.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe there's some kind of time paradox at work.
EMH: There is another possibility. Given that Kes has knowledge of a treatment I have not yet devised, it's possible she's developed some sort of precognition.
KES: Are you saying I can see into the future?
PARIS: Well, you've demonstrated some pretty extraordinary mental powers over the years. Telepathy, telekinesis.
EMH: And precognition wouldn't be unprecedented. Some species, including the Yattho of the Beta quadrant, have been known to predict future events with uncanny accuracy.
CHAKOTAY: See if you can confirm this theory about precognition. In the meantime, Tom and I will begin scanning for temporal anomalies.
PARIS: We'll do everything we can to help you.
KES: I'd like to do something to help myself.
CHAKOTAY: What did you have in mind?
KES: Well I seem to have lived quite a full life on this ship. Maybe if I have a look in my medical files, or check other record of my activities, I might be able to fill in some of the blanks.
EMH: Well you may have lost your memories, but you certainly haven't lost your determination.
(Or the knowledge of how to use the ship's computers.)

[Kes's quarters]

(There are lots of PADDs scattered about.)
PARIS: Hi.
KES: Oh, hello.
PARIS: How's it coming?
KES: I've had a busy life. It's hard to know where to start. How about you?
PARIS: Well, we've tried every kind of temporal scan Harry could think of, but we still haven't been able to find anything to explain what's been happening to you. Your initial physical exam. I remember when you came on board. I had a crush on you right from the beginning. I tried to hide it, but Neelix sensed it and boy, was he ever jealous.
KES: Neelix?
PARIS: You don't remember? You and he were involved for quite a while. One of your prenatal exams. We listened to Linnis' heartbeat. That was quite a day.
KES: What about this. It says I got some kind of radiation poisoning on stardate 50973.
PARIS: That was the beginning of the Year of Hell.
KES: Year of Hell?
PARIS: That's what some of us call it now. We were under virtually constant attack by a race called the Krenim. The ship almost didn't make it. The Doctor was offline for months, and we lost a lot of good people. Captain Janeway, Joe Carey, B'Elanna.
KES: B'Elanna?
PARIS: I keep forgetting that you don't remember any of them. B'Elanna was someone who was very special to me. When she died, I felt like I wanted to die too, but you, you helped me through it.
(Kes recoils from his caress.)
PARIS: I'm sorry.
KES: No. No, it's my fault. You haven't done anything wrong. It's just
PARIS: You don't remember any of our life together? Well, that's all right. I've got enough feelings for both of us.
KES: Maybe the feelings I had for you will come back.
PARIS: You were asking about the radiation poisoning. A lot of us were exposed. During the first Krenim attack one of the chroniton torpedo fragments leaked radiation into the ship.
KES: Chroniton torpedoes?
PARIS: They were able to penetrate our shields because their torpedoes were in a constant state of temporal flux. Wait a minute. Think we may be onto something. We'd better go talk to the Doctor. Come on.

[Corridor]

KES: If I was infected with these chroniton particles, then there might be a connection to what's happening to me now.
PARIS: Exactly.
KES: Maybe we should try scanning for residual

[Kes's quarters - 2378]

(A younger, long-haired Kes is holding a baby.)
KIM: Say cheese!
(Kim takes the photograph that was by her bedside.)
LINNIS: I think he's got your nose, Mother.
KIM: So how does it feel to be a grandfather?
PARIS: A lot better than it does to have you for a son-in-law.
KES: What's the date?
PARIS: The date?
KES: Yes, the stardate.
KIM: It's 56947. Why?
KES: Over six months.
LINNIS: Mother, what's going on?
KES: Tom, we have to talk to the Doctor. Come on.

[Doctor's office]

KES: As far as I can tell I've jumped backwards a total of five times so far.
EMH: Is there any discernable pattern to these jumps?
KES: No, they're apparently random. One time it seemed to span for a few weeks, and the last was half a year. Each time I arrive I seem to exist in temporal synch with the rest of you for a while, but before I can make anyone understand what's happening I find myself in am earlier time of my life. And just before it happens I seem to experience a sudden drop in body temperature.
EMH: Hmm. Now this could explain a thing or two.
KES: What is it?
EMH: I'm detecting high level chroniton radiation in your cells.
KES: So I was right. There is a connection.
PARIS: But Kes was inoculated along with the rest of the crew over three years ago.
EMH: Yes. However, everyone was left with trace amounts of the radiation in their bodies. For some reason, those residual chronitons have reactivated in Kes.
PARIS: Why?
KES: The bio-temporal chamber.
EMH: My thinking exactly.
PARIS: Would you two mind explaining?
EMH: It's really quite obvious, Lieutenant. Your wife is travelling backward through time.

[Briefing room]

(Chakotay and Tuvok are there, too.)
KES: It's as though I came into existence at the moment of my own death, without any memories. I've been living my life backwards ever since, jumping progressively to earlier moments in my life. accumulating memories and experiences as I go. Your past has become my future.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, any theory about what's causing this?
EMH: In approximately six months, I will apparently expose Kes to some type of bio-temporal field in a highly experimental but nonetheless brilliant attempt to stop her aging process.
TUVOK: And it's this attempt which leads to Kes's current predicament?
EMH: What I will apparently fail to realise is that the bio-temporal field is going to reactivate the dormant chroniton particles in her cells, bringing Kes out of temporal sync with the rest of us.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to stop Kes from continuing these jumps?
EMH: Yes. Purge her completely of the chroniton poisoning.
KIM: To do that we'd need to know the precise temporal variance of the specific torpedo which contaminated the ship.
TUVOK: Tactical sensors were not functioning at the time. There is no data regarding the torpedo in question.
PARIS: Let me get one thing straight, Doc. Is it possible if this keeps happening to Kes that she might actually jump back into a time before she knew any of us?
EMH: Worse than that, Mister Paris. It's possible she may eventually jump back to a time before she even existed.

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain's log, stardate 55836.2. Kes has remained in temporal sync with us for two days now, but since we don't know when she may jump again, we can't afford to rest until we've found some way to help her.

[Medical laboratory]

LINNIS: I'm going to try running a hypothalamic scan. Maybe we can establish a pattern to the drops in your body temperature.
KES: You're very good at this, aren't you.
LINNIS: I had a very good teacher.
KES: Doctor Van Gogh?
LINNIS: You.
KES: I'm sorry. All this must be taking you away from your baby just now. You must be wanting to spend every second with him.
LINNIS: Actually I feel a little awkward around him sometimes. Harry's always singing to him and playing with him, but, well, I seem to be much more comfortable with a molecular scanner than I am with a diaper.
KES: Now, Linnis, I don't think it's
EMH: Kes, I may have found a way to prevent your next jump. I've erected a containment field that may keep you here. It's going to require your confinement in Sickbay.
LINNIS: I'll keep working here.
KES: Linnis, you must be a good mother. I happen to know that Andrew grows up to be a wonderful child.

[Sickbay]

(Kes is pacing the surgical alcove.)
KES: Hello, Tom.
PARIS: I thought maybe you could use some company.
KES: I feel like I'm in a cage. Doctor Van Gogh says
PARIS: Doctor Van Gogh? I thought you settled on Mozart.
EMH: Evidently my interest in the great figures of art and culture will be an ongoing process.
PARIS: Well, Vincent, how about letting me inside this thing?
EMH: I'm afraid that wouldn't be advisable.
(The EMH leaves them alone.)
PARIS: Okay then, how about another installment of Tom and Kes, the Early Years?
KES: I'd enjoy that.
PARIS: Well, there was our wedding reception. Harry was my best man. He got so nervous when he stood up to give the toast that he spilt champagne all over my dress uniform.
KES: What is it?
PARIS: At the time, I thought that was the happiest day of my life, but every day it just got better and better.
KES: Oh, it means so much to have you here now.
(Linnis enters.)
LINNIS: I think I may have found something.
EMH: What is it.
LINNIS: Well, I was studying the effects of the chronitons on other crew members and I
(An alarm beeps.)
PARIS: What's that?
EMH: Kes' temperature has dropped one point nine degrees. Linnis, monitor the containment field. I'm going to try to elevate her temperature.
(The EMH goes through the forcefield and administers a hypo.)
EMH: Her temperature's still dropping.
LINNIS: We're losing containment.
EMH: Increase the field amplitude.
PARIS: Kes?
LINNIS: It's not working.
(Kes becomes transparent.)
EMH: We're losing her. Set field polarisation to maximum.
(Kes and Paris reach out to each other.)
PARIS: Do something!

[Shuttlecraft - 2374]

(Kes is standing up, holding onto a crossmember and panting hard.)
PARIS: The sac is opening.
KES: What's happening?
PARIS: What do you mean, what's happening? You're having a baby. Hold still.
KES: Where am I?
PARIS: Exactly where I told you not to be, on a shuttlecraft.
KES: I have to see the Doctor.
PARIS: Well, that'd be nice if he were still around. I told you you were in no condition to come on a supply mission, but did you listen to me? I can see the toes, it's coming. Yes! It's a girl! Ah, she's beautiful.
KES: Yes, she is.
PARIS: Yes, just like her mother.
KES: Tom, listen.
PARIS: I love you, Kes.
KES: We need to talk.
(Beep!)
PARIS: Just a minute.
KES: What is it?
PARIS: Voyager's under attack.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Congratulations.
PARIS: Thanks, but it looks like the celebration'll have to wait.
NEELIX: I'll get Kes and the baby to the Mess hall. Captain Chakotay wants you to go to the weapons array and modulate the targeting scanners to a parametric frequency. He's going to try to knock out the chroniton torpedo launchers before they're fired.
KES: Chroniton torpedoes. The Year of Hell.
PARIS: What?
KES: You told me that the crew referred to this time as the Year of Hell.
PARIS: When did I tell you that?
KES: It's a long story.
PARIS: You'll have to tell me later. I've got to get to the weapons array. Neelix, get her to lie down, will you?
KES: Neelix, listen very carefully. There's something very important I have to tell you.

[Mess hall]

(The mess hall is an overflow ward.)
PARIS: Neelix told us what's been happening to you, Kes. How are you holding up?
KES: We're both fine.
CHAKOTAY: That's quite a story.
KES: Just before the last jump we were close to a solution. The Doctor was working on
PARIS: The Doctor?
CHAKOTAY: Well it's good to know we'll eventually get him back online.
PARIS: Eventually may be too late. We've got to help Kes now.
KES: We discovered that what's been happening to me is related to the chroniton poisoning I suffered during a Krenim attack. We have to determine the exact temporal variance of the torpedo, so that
CHAKOTAY: The main computer's been offline for weeks. Even if the sensor logs contain that information, we can't access them.
KES: You have to put me in the bio-temporal containment field. I know it didn't work last time, but with a few modifications
CHAKOTAY: We've only got life support on three out of fourteen decks, and we've had to divert all remaining power to knock out the Krenim's torpedo launchers. We don't even have a Sickbay anymore, much less the resources to create a bio-containment field. I'm sorry.
PARIS: We've got to do something to help her.
CHAKOTAY: I'm open to suggestions.
KES: I'm cold.
PARIS: I'll get you a blanket.
KES: No, you don't understand, I'm about, I'm about

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

KES: Tom.
PARIS: Hey, Kes, some party, huh?
KES: I have to talk to you.
TORRES: Tom, I'm sorry I'm late.
(Paris greets Torres with a kiss.)
KES: You must be B'Elanna.
TORRES: Well, the last time I checked.
PARIS: Something wrong?
KES: Actually, there is something wrong.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY [OC]: Red alert. All hands to battle stations.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tuvok, fire phasers.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: Who the hell are they?
KES: They're called the Krenim.
JANEWAY: How do you know that?
KES: Captain Janeway?
JANEWAY: What is it, Kes? What do you know about them?
TUVOK: Shields down to thirty nine percent, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I don't understand how these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres, Mister Paris. B'Elanna, can we reroute power to the forward shields?
TORRES: Already trying.
KES: Captain, these torpedoes are chroniton based. They're passing through our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux.
(Another torpedo hits Voyager, and the Engineering console explodes, sending Janeway and Torres flying.)
KES: They're dead.
PARIS: B'Elanna!
KIM: Hull breach on deck seven. We're losing life support.
CHAKOTAY: Evacuate the deck. Tom, I need you at the conn.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: Commander, they're arming their torpedo launchers again. We cannot sustain another direct hit.
CHAKOTAY: Kes, you seem to know something about these weapons. Do you have any idea how we can stop them?
KES: I'm not sure, but I think it has something to do with remodulating the targeting scanners.
KIM: That could work. If we remodulate the scanners to a parametric frequency we might be able to destroy the torpedo launchers before they fire.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Tuvok, you heard the man. Tom, bring us about.
TUVOK: Ready, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!
(The attacking ship goes KaBOOM!)

[Mess hall]

(A makeshift ward.)
CHAKOTAY: Do you have a casualty report?
KIM: Including Captain Janeway and B'Elanna, we lost eleven people.
CHAKOTAY: What about the ship?
KIM: Starboard shield generators and warp drive are offline, and power is down on decks four through twelve.
CHAKOTAY: Make deck five your priority. We've got to get Sickbay up and running again.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Kes, as far as what you say is happening to you
KES: I understand my condition can't be a priority now.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, I'm going to need you to stay here and treat these people. When this is over, we're all going to have a lot of grieving to do.
KES: How are you doing? Tom, I know it doesn't seem possible now, but you're going to be all right.
PARIS: I wish I could believe you.
KES: You can.
PARIS: Thanks.
NEELIX: Kes, we've got radiation leakage coming from one of the Krenim torpedo fragments. People are starting to complain of nausea.
KES: Chroniton radiation. This is it. I'm infected. Where's the radiation coming from?
NEELIX: It's lodged in a Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two.
KES: I've got to get down there.
NEELIX: You can't. The entire deck is sealed off.
KES: I have to find the exact temporal variance of that torpedo.
NEELIX: You can't go near that thing. You'll be burnt to a crisp.
KES: I know what I'm doing. You stay here and help Tom, all right?
NEELIX: Yes, but
(Kes goes into the Jefferies tubes and forces her way into the breached section. The torpedo is pulsing and giving off a gas. She starts her tricorder. Finally it comes up with a number - Temporal Variance 1.47. Kes memorises it before she collapses.)

[Sickbay - 2373]

EMH: Kes, how are you coming with those analgesic compounds?
KES: Doctor, you've lost your hair.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
KES: It's a long story. The important thing is, the temporal variance of the chroniton torpedo was one point four seven microseconds.

[Briefing room]

KES: As far as I can determine, I've jumped a total of six years into my past.
TUVOK: Do you have any theory as to the cause of these jumps?
EMH: According to Kes, she and the rest of the crew will be infected by chroniton radiation in approximately eleven months from now. Everyone will be inoculated and the effects will appear to vanish. However, some five years later, when I attempt an experimental and, I might add, ingenious procedure to extend her lifespan, the bio-temporal field I expose her to will trigger dormant chroniton particles, taking Kes out of temporal sync and causing her to begin her backward journey through time.
JANEWAY: In all my years in Starfleet I've never come across a phenomenon quite like this.
EMH: Kes has been able to provide us with the precise temporal variance of the torpedo which infected her.
TORRES: Since Kes is moving backward in time, she's already been infected by the radiation poisoning. If we can set up a bio-temporal chamber and expose her to a precisely modulated field of anti-chroniton particles, we feel this may purge her system and bring her back into temporal sync with there rest of us.
JANEWAY: Well, we'd better get moving. For all we know, Kes's next jump will take her back to a time when we're not here to help her.
KES: Captain, there's something else I have to tell you. In about six months you're going to enter a region of space controlled by a race called the Krenim. You must avoid them at all costs.
JANEWAY: Tell me more.

[Sickbay]

TORRES: I'm ready to bring the chamber online.
JANEWAY: Synaptic relays are operational. How are her vital signs?
EMH: Pulse normal, body temperature fourteen degrees, chroniton level at seventy nine roentgens. Go ahead and activate the chamber, Lieutenant. Increase the bio-temporal field stress.
TORRES: Bringing field stress to twenty five kilodynes.
EMH: Alright, let's try the anti-chronitons.
TORRES: Whenever you're ready, Doc.
EMH: Initiating anti-chroniton burst, ten MEVs, five second pulse. Pulse steady, body temperature at fourteen point two degrees, and rising.
JANEWAY: What about her chroniton count?
EMH: Chroniton count is seventy one roentgens and dropping.
JANEWAY: It's working.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres, increase the field strength to thirty kilodynes.
TORRES: Right.
EMH: Initiating another burst. Fifteen MEVs, five second pulse. Body temperature fourteen point nine degrees, chroniton count sixty eight roentgens, sixty, fifty seven, fifty two.

[Ready room - 2371]

NEELIX: You need a cook. You haven't lived until you've tasted my angla'bosque. It will be my job to anticipate your needs before you know you have them.
KES: Oh, not again.
NEELIX: And I anticipate your first need will be me.
KES: I'm sorry. I know this is going to sound strange to you both, but I don't belong here.
NEELIX: But we discussed this.
KES: You don't understand, I'm travelling backwards in time, getting younger. We have to lower my chroniton levels. You've got to get me into the bio-temporal chamber right away.
NEELIX: I, I, I'm sorry Captain. I didn't quite anticipate this.
KES: Listen to me, please.
NEELIX: Sweeting, try to calm down. I assure you, Captain, she's never behaved this way before.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Mister Neelix. Kes, why don't you start over, slowly.
KES: It begins about eight years in the future, when I'm about to die. No!

[Ocampa - 2370]

BENAREN: Time for dinner. What's wrong, Kes?
YOUNG KES: Who are you? What is this place?
BENAREN: We don't have time to play our guessing game right now, Kes. You know how your mother gets when we're late to the table.
YOUNG KES: You're my father.
BENAREN: That's right, and you're my favourite daughter, but don't tell anyone.
YOUNG KES: Listen to me, something terrible's been happening to me.
BENAREN: What's wrong?
YOUNG KES: There might not be much time so I've got to explain this quickly. Please try to believe me. I've been living aboard a starship called Voyager.
BENAREN: A starship. I see. So now it's not only the surface you're dreaming about exploring.
YOUNG KES: Listen to me. I did go to the surface, or rather, I will go there, and the people aboard the ship are going to rescue me from the Kazon and take me with them.
BENAREN: We can talk about your adventures after dinner.
YOUNG KES: No, there's no time. You've got to believe me. One moment I was this old woman and then, and then
BENAREN: Kes, we're late.
YOUNG KES: Father, please.

[Ocampa Medical Centre]

BENAREN: I can see the toes! Keep going, Martis. It's a girl.
MARTIS: Oh, Kes.
(Then back into the womb, and reversing still to a embryo then a blastocyte, then nothing. Pause, and time starts going forward again to the birth.)
BENAREN: It's a girl.
MARTIS: Oh, she's so, she's so beautiful. Kes. I think one day she'll see the sun.

[Sickbay - 2373]

EMH: Fifty one roentgens, forty six, thirty four. Another anti-chroniton burst, twenty MEVs.
TORRES: Right.
EMH: Levels are continuing to drop. Pulse normal, body temperature steady at sixteen point three degrees, chroniton levels are at zero roentgens. Welcome back, Kes.
KES: What's the date? How old am I?
EMH: The same age you were when we put you into the bio-temporal chamber. A healthy three years and two months. And due to an extraordinary display of medical heroics, you're back in temporal sync with the rest of us.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]

NEELIX: So, I'm going to become a security officer. How about that?
TUVOK: Fortunately, Mister Neelix, what Kes has been describing is merely one possible future. On each occasion that she jumped to a previous time, her subsequent actions most likely altered the future from that moment on.
NEELIX: Good point, Tuvok. Maybe I'll turn out to be Chief Security Officer.
(Neelix clinks champagne glasses with Chakotay.)
KIM: So, Kes, have you regained all your memories of the past?
KES: I remember last month's supply of replicator rations that you borrowed, that you owe me, if that's what you're asking.
KIM: Don't worry, I haven't forgotten.
EMH: I realise it's only hypothetical, but still I'd be curious to know what sorts of medical breakthroughs I'm going to make in this possible future.
KES: It's not as if I've seen everything that's going to happen over the next six years. I only remember short periods I experienced between jumps.
TORRES: Even so, I bet you found out some pretty interesting things.
PARIS: Yeah, Kes. Tell us what you know.
CHAKOTAY: Careful, Tom. You may find out that you leave Voyager only to join a monastery.
KIM: Hey, give him a little credit. I bet he gets married and has a family.
PARIS: Thank you.
KIM: Don't mention it.
TORRES: Are you telling?
KES: Well, as Tuvok said, I've only seen pieces of one possible future.
PARIS: You know what? Don't tell me. I don't want to know. I like a little mystery in my life.
JANEWAY: Tom's right. I think we should all leave the future to the future.
TUVOK: While I agree it would not be wise for Kes to make all of her experiences public, a report on anything she knows about these Krenim might be useful.
KES: I'll get started right away.
JANEWAY: Hang on a minute. I didn't mean now. Stay and enjoy your party.
KES: If there's one thing that this experience has taught me, Captain, it's that there's no time like the present.


S3 E22
Real Life
Stardate: 50836.2
Original Airdate: 23 April, 1997

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho]
(A house with a large living area, and a fire burning in a hearth set into the corner.)
CHARLENE: Jeffrey, Belle, you're going to be late if you don't hurry. Come on now. Line up next to the door, children. Your father's ready to leave for work. All right, show me your fingernails. Very nicely done. Are your shoes polished? Perfect. I'm very pleased, children, and I'm sure your father will be too.
(How very idealistic 1950s USA.)
BELLE: I want to be first to say goodbye to daddy. Jeffrey always goes first.
JEFFREY: You were first yesterday.
CHARLENE: Now, children, little birds in their nest get along.
JEFFREY: You're right, mother. I'm sorry, Belle, you can go first.
BELLE: No, it's really your turn. I did go first yesterday.
JEFFREY: Here he comes.
CHARLENE: All right, now. Bright, happy faces.
EMH: The coffee was quite good this morning.
CHARLENE: I'm so glad you like it. I replicated a new blend from Paxau three.
EMH: I'll be home at the usual time.
CHARLENE: Now don't let them overwork you. You should save yourself for the important things. Others can do the busy work.
EMH: I couldn't agree more.
JEFFREY: I hope you have a good day, Father. I'll have my homework finished by the time you get back.
EMH: I'll look forward to reviewing it, Jeffrey. And is my little angel going to get an A on her history exam today?
BELLE: Of course I will, daddy, and can we do some algebra problems when you get home?
EMH: Gladly.
CHARLENE: And don't forget, you're going to ask some of your friends from work to have dinner with us. I'd like to meet them.
EMH: I haven't forgotten. Well, goodbye all.
ALL: Goodbye, daddy.

[Sickbay]

KES: How's the new holo-family, Doctor?
EMH: They're everything I could have hoped for.

Captain's log, stardate 50836.2. We've had long range communications with a seemingly friendly race known as the Vostigye. We'll be rendezvousing within the hour at one of their space stations.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Ensign Kim, perhaps you could direct your attention to the sensors, and tell us if we're nearing the Vostigye space station?
KIM: We should be getting close. That's funny, I'm not detecting it.
JANEWAY: You've checked the coordinates they sent us?
KIM: Yes, and. Hold on. Now I'm getting something. It's debris.
CHAKOTAY: Debris?
TUVOK: Confirmed. I am reading a debris field encompassing nearly eighty cubic kilometres.
JANEWAY: What's the composition of the debris?
KIM: Boronite, sarium, carbon 60 composites.
PARIS: Sounds like it could have been a space station.
JANEWAY: On screen. What happened to it?
CHAKOTAY: Something ripped it apart, and from the energy decay readings I'd say it was no more than an hour ago.
KIM: I'm not picking up any lifesigns, Captain. There don't appear to be any survivors.
JANEWAY: There were sixty Vostigye scientists on that station.
TUVOK: I don't read any recognisable weapons signatures.
PARIS: Maybe somebody in this part of space has weapons that don't leave a traditional signature.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know who they are, and why they'd annihilate a science station.
KIM: Maybe we can find out, Captain. There's a strange pattern that seems to be emanating from subspace. Looks like some kind of plasma particles.
CHAKOTAY: I've got it too. It's like a wake, leading away from the debris field.
JANEWAY: From a ship?
CHAKOTAY: I can't tell.
JANEWAY: Set a course to follow it, Tom.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]

(Fashion note - Torres is sporting a single small plait by the left side of her face for this episode.)
TORRES: Optical processors, imaging array, they all check out. Doctor, you are in perfect health.
EMH: I'm sure I could have told you that.
TORRES: Yes, I'm sure you could have, but with all the tinkering you've been doing with your programme lately, I feel better giving you these little tune-ups on a regular basis.
EMH: The tinkering you speak of has been for the sole purpose of improving my performance as a physician. I can hardly be faulted for that.
TORRES: I'm not faulting you for your intentions, Doctor. I think it's rather commendable that you want to improve yourself.
EMH: That's why I've created a family.
TORRES: A family?
EMH: I've listened to enough patients talk about their families to realise how meaningful they are to biological beings.
TORRES: Well, for better or worse, yes.
KES: The Doctor has created a holographic wife and two children so that he can experience family life for himself.
TORRES: Interesting. And how's it going so far?
EMH: Splendidly. From what I heard, I thought it would be difficult, but I'm enjoying the experience.
TORRES: You are? Funny, I never thought of you as a family man, Doc. I'd like to meet them.
EMH: As a matter of fact, the little woman has been asking me to bring some of my colleagues home for dinner. Perhaps you and Kes would care to join us tonight? Charlene is a wonderful cook.
KES: I'd like to meet them too.
TORRES: Well, Doc, tell your wife to haul out the good china. You're having company.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho]

CHARLENE: Please, have some more wild mushroom pilaf, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Thanks, I've had two helpings already. It's delicious.
CHARLENE: Well, I took a course in continental cuisine so I could replicate interesting meals for Kenneth.
KES: Kenneth?
CHARLENE: My husband. What do you call him?
KES: Oh, we call him Doctor.
CHARLENE: Oh, of course. Anyway, he works terribly hard and he's under such great stress, I want this home to be a sanctuary, the place he can come and have all the cares of the day disappear.
TORRES: How nice for him.
BELLE: My daddy's a very important man. He's the best doctor there ever was, and he saves people's lives all the time.
EMH: A slight exaggeration.
BELLE: It is not. You said
EMH: Belle, eat your dinner. They're well aware of my talents. Jeffrey, why don't you tell our guests about your new project at school.
JEFFREY: I've designed a microfilter implant which will make it possible to cleanse blood of harmful micro-organisms too small to stimulate an immune response.
EMH: Jeffrey is extremely bright. He's in the accelerated physical sciences programme at school.
TORRES: A regular chip off the old block, right?
CHARLENE: And don't forget about our little Belle. She's already studying algebra and trigonometry, and she's quite the budding athlete.
KES: You must be very proud of your family, Doctor.
EMH: Oh.
CHARLENE: Well, we're proud of him too. In fact, we think we have just about the most wonderful husband and father in the quadrant, don't we
TORRES: Computer, freeze programme.
CHILDREN: Yes, we do
EMH: Lieutenant, what are you doing?
TORRES: I am stopping this before my blood sugar levels overload. Doctor.
EMH: Yes?
TORRES: If you think that this is giving you an accurate impression of being in a family, you are sadly mistaken.
EMH: I don't understand.
KES: They're kind of perfect.
TORRES: They are ridiculously perfect. No one has a family like this. This is a fantasy. You're not going to learn anything being with these lollipops.
EMH: I provided the computer with my requirements for a mate and children. If I were to choose a real wife, my tastes would be the same. Intelligence, education, organisational skills.
TORRES: There is nothing wrong with your premise, Doctor, it just needs a little tweaking to bring it closer to real life. I can help, if you'd like.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, the particle wave we've been following is beginning to thin out.
JANEWAY: Is there any indication what caused it?
TUVOK: I am detecting no ships, no structures, no weapons signatures.
KIM: Wait a minute. Something.
CHAKOTAY: I see it too. A subspace disruption.
JANEWAY: What's causing it?
KIM: Can't tell, but it's getting more intense.
(The ship starts shaking.)
JANEWAY: Shields up. Red Alert. Tom, back us off.
KIM: Something's coming out of subspace.
(It is big, bright, and wormhole like.)
JANEWAY: Tom, move us away.
PARIS: I don't have engines.
KIM: Propulsion is offline, so is navigational control.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. We need power.
TORRES [OC]: I'm on it, Captain.
TUVOK: The anomaly is bearing down on us, heading zero four seven mark one nine.
CHAKOTAY: Brace for impact!
KIM: It hit our starboard shields.
TUVOK: There's damage on deck three.
JANEWAY: Ready weapons. We're going to disperse it.
TUVOK: Phasers online.
PARIS: Wait a minute.
(The anomaly passes.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm not afraid to say it. I've never seen anything like that before.
JANEWAY: Damage report.
TUVOK: Twenty percent loss of the starboard dorsal shields, and minor buckling of the hull on deck three.
KIM: No indication of casualties.
PARIS: We've got propulsion systems back online. I think I can put some distance between us and whatever that was.
JANEWAY: Maybe we don't want to. We've just witnessed a phenomenon none of us has ever heard of before, much less experienced. On a purely scientific level, I think we owe it to ourselves to investigate.
CHAKOTAY: I'm looking at the telemetry we've collected. It was an astral eddy that seems to have formed at the confluence of space and subspace.
KIM: It's highly charged with plasma. That explains the particle wake.
CHAKOTAY: If we could harness some of that energy, we could go off replicator rations for a while.
KIM: Captain, we don't have any idea what caused that phenomenon, or what made it dissipate. So how do we investigate it if it's gone?
JANEWAY: I suspect there are conditions in this part of space that lend themselves to the formation of those eddies. Set sensors for continuous scans of subspace. Maybe we can anticipate the next one.
(Janeway's eyes light up. There's coffee in that eddy.)

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I thought for a long time about what Lieutenant Torres said, and I finally concluded she was right. If I'm going to have the experience of a family, it should be as authentic as possible.
KES: What changes have you asked her to make in the programme?
EMH: Oh, she's already made them. She's simply added some randomised behavioural algorithms to the programme I constructed.
KES: How will it affect your family?
EMH: Events will simply unfold as a matter of natural evolution of probabilities within the programme, but there's no way to predict what those might be.
KES: That could mean a few surprises. Are you sure you've ready for this?
EMH: My database contains everything there is to know about paediatric care and childhood development. I can't imagine a parenting problem I couldn't handle.
KES: Your wife will have changed too.
EMH: Well, I have had some experience with romantic relationships. I don't anticipate any problems there.
KES: Sounds like you have it all worked out. When do you plan on meeting this new, improved family?
EMH: Right now. I'm due home for dinner. Computer, initiate Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho and transfer the EMH to holodeck two.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho]

EMH: Hello, I'm
(Raucous noise is emanating from somewhere. My guess? Jeffrey's room.)
EMH: Home.
CHARLENE: There you are. I thought you'd never get here.
(The living room is not spick and span.)
EMH: It was a busy day. I was quite challenged by the task of preparing a DNA probe to test Ensign Parson's glial cells. It seems he has a microbial infection. Rather unusual.
CHARLENE: Tell me about it when I get home. I'm late already.
EMH: Late?
CHARLENE: It's Wednesday, remember? I'm speaking at the Bolian embassy.
EMH: Ah. Right. Is dinner ready?
CHARLENE: It's your night to cook.
BELLE [OC]: Mom! l can't find my ion mallet.
CHARLENE: If you cleaned your room you'd have better luck.
EMH: What is that noise?
CHARLENE: I've had to listen to it all day. Maybe you can do something about it.
BELLE: Oh Daddy, you've got to help me. I'll be late for practice. Coach Morgan'll be furious if I'm late again.
EMH: If you put your mallet in your closet when you were done with it, you'd know where it was.
BELLE: I know that, Daddy. Oh, tell Jeffrey to turn that off. It makes my eyes hurt!
EMH: Mine too. Jeffrey? Jeffrey?
JEFFREY: What?
(Jeffery is a sullen, rebellious teenager.)
EMH: What is that music?
JEFFREY: Klingon.
EMH: Well, turn it down. You can't do your homework with that noise.
BELLE: Daddy, I can't find your mallet!
EMH: I know that, Belle.
BELLE: They're going to send me down to the second team!
EMH: Well, perhaps that will teach you a lesson.
BELLE: You don't understand anything!
EMH: Belle, you have to realise
(Someone hammers at the door. Two Klingon teenagers are there.)
LARG: Where's Jeffery?
EMH: Who are you?
LARG: Friends.
EMH: Do you have names?
LARG: Larg.
K'KATH: K'kath.
EMH: Well, Larg and K'kath, you'll have to come back later. Jeffrey's doing his homework.
LARG: He invited us.
BELLE: Daddy! I need my iron mallet!
EMH: I! Just a minute. I'm sorry, but Jeffrey can't see friends until he has finished his homework.
JEFFREY: Dad, I asked them to come.
BELLE: Daddy!
EMH: Jeffery, this is unacceptable.
JEFFREY: It'll only take a minute. We have some business we have to do.
EMH: Business?
JEFFREY: HIquoS, pos'tach.
LARG: NuqneH.
BELLE: Where's my mallet? I need it now!
EMH: Young man!
BELLE: You're mean! I want my mommy here! She'd help me find my mallet! I want mommy! I want mommy! I want mommy! I want mommy!

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Nothing striking your fancy, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Isn't this the fourth day in a row we've had the same casserole?
NEELIX: Pleeka rinds and grub meal. Very tasty, if I do say so myself.
PARIS: Well, you did a great job with it, no question. It's just be nice to have a little variety.
NEELIX: Well you're perfectly free to use the replicators.
PARIS: Ah. I'm out of rations.
NEELIX: Then, enjoy the casserole.
(Torres is sitting, reading a PADD and sipping a drink.)
PARIS: A beautiful woman should never have to eat alone. What are you reading?
TORRES: It's nothing important.
PARIS: Women Warriors at the River of Blood?
TORRES: It's just escapist reading.
PARIS: Rork turned his fierce eye upon her, and B'Neah felt her heart begin to quicken, even as her hand went to her dagger. She had intended to plunge it into his throat, but something about him made her hesitate. B'Elanna, is this a Klingon Romance novel?
TORRES: Klingons do have what you might call a romantic side. It's a bit more vigorous than most.
PARIS: I think I'll read it. Maybe it'll give me some ideas how to make your heart quicken.
TORRES: It's not a technical manual, Tom.
PARIS: Well, that depends what you mean by technical.
TORRES: To an engineer, that means specialising in particular systems.
PARIS: I think that definition works.
TORRES: But I can't promise I won't put a dagger in your throat. Have you heard about the Doctor's new family?
PARIS: How's it going?
TORRES: I think he was a little overwhelmed at first, but I have to give him credit. He's sticking with it.
PARIS: It's hard to imagine the Doctor with children.
(The ship shakes.)
TORRES: What?
(An eddy appears.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Senior staff to the bridge immediately.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tom. I want to send a probe into that anomaly. Can you hold position close enough for us to get accurate telemetry?
PARIS: I can try.
CHAKOTAY: Be ready to move away quickly if it starts moving towards us.
PARIS: Sorry about that. Just trying to find a way to ride the graviton waves it's throwing off. There, that's a little better. We're in as good a position as we're going to be.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The probe has been launched.
PARIS: Actually, this is kind of fun.
(Torres picks herself up off the deck.)
TORRES: Speak for yourself.
KIM: We're starting to receive telemetry. Captain, this is one weird disturbance. I'm reading a temperature gradient of nine million Kelvin's, massive discharges of plasmatic energy, and there's a perfectly calm eye at the centre.
TUVOK: Apparently some of the matter inside it is being exchanged between space and subspace.
CHAKOTAY: What about the plasma? Is there anyway we can transfer some of it to Voyager?
TORRES: I don't see how. We can't transport with this kind of turbulence.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can try a
(The eddy vanishes.)
PARIS: We lost it.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the probe?
KIM: It's disappeared. It's still transmitting, but there's a lot of interference.
TORRES: I'm detecting some kind of unstable interfold layer, not in space or subspace. It could be where the eddies originate, and where the probe is now.
CHAKOTAY: We've got another particle wake. Since we can't get plasma directly from the eddies, maybe we can collect some from their wakes.
TUVOK: The Bussard collectors could be modified to gather plasma particles.
TORRES: We could do that, but Voyager's energy emissions are so high they'd corrupt the particles. I'm not sure the plasma would be much use to us.
PARIS: What if I took a shuttle out? The energy emissions would be a lot lower.
JANEWAY: That sounds like it's worth a try.
TORRES: You'd be exposing yourself to radiation poisoning.
JANEWAY: Check with the Doctor. Maybe he can give you some kind of protection.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. I'll head to the shuttlebay as soon as I'm done.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've given you a combination of hyronalin and lectrazine. That should give you temporary protection, but I can't guarantee it's duration.
PARIS: That's all right, Doc. I don't think I'll be out there too long.
EMH: If I know you, you'll push it to the limit. You enjoy flirting with danger.
PARIS: You know me too well.
EMH: You were undoubtedly one of those children who had to climb the highest tree, scale the tallest cliff.
PARIS: That was me.
EMH: I can only imagine what you must have put your parents through.
PARIS: How's the family, Doc? I hear they're a real handful.
EMH: Indeed. However, I have analysed the situation and come up with a solution. There should be no more problems.
PARIS: You make it sound like you're treating a sick patient. I'm not sure you can diagnose and cure a family.
EMH: We'll see. You're in fine physical shape, Lieutenant. You may go ahead and engage in this reckless activity.
PARIS: Thanks, Doc.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho]

(The place is neat again.)
EMH: Where's Jeffrey?
CHARLENE: He's coming.
EMH: I asked everyone to be here at sixteen hundred hours precisely.
BELLE: Jeffrey was asleep.
EMH: Asleep? In the middle of the afternoon?
(Jeffery enters.)
EMH: Is this true? Were you asleep?
CHARLENE: Are you sick?
JEFFREY: I had a late night.
EMH: That's one of the matters I want to discuss. Thank you all for coming. I thought it would be a good idea if we had a family meeting. In fact, I'd like to do this on a regular basis.
JEFFREY: That's something to look forward to.
EMH: If you have something to say, Jeffrey, say it so everyone can hear.
JEFFREY: Nothing.
EMH: I've been feeling that this family is beginning to spin out of control. As husband and father I believe it is my duty to set some parameters. It's part of good parenting.
BELLE: What are parameters?
EMH: Limits, boundaries. To that end, I have drawn up a revised family schedule and a list of rules and regulations. I'd like you all to study them carefully.
CHARLENE: You've rearranged my lecture nights.
EMH: I had to do that in order to make everything work. Everybody has had to make some sacrifices.
BELLE: Daddy! You changed Pareses Squares from Monday, Wednesday, Friday to Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. That puts me on the second team. I'm good enough to be on the first team.
EMH: You shouldn't be on the first team. You're not old enough. As I said, Belle, we must all make sacrifices.
JEFFREY: What sacrifices did you make?
EMH: I will make dinner on the nights your mother lectures.
BELLE: You do that anyway. That's not a sacrifice.
JEFFREY: What's this about no Klingon friends?
EMH: Exactly that. They're a bad influence on you. They're prone to violence, they keep you out till all hours. Why don't you find some nice Vulcan friends?
JEFFREY: You can't just decide who my friends will be.
CHARLENE: Hold on. Kenneth, that may be a bit unreasonable.
EMH: Charlene? You know very well how important it is to keep a united front. I expect you to support me in these decisions.
CHARLENE: Well, if that's what you expect then maybe you should have asked my opinion before you started unilaterally deciding things. I'm not one of the children, after all. I believe I should have some say in just what rules and regulations are established. And I think it's unfair for you to tell Jeffrey what friends he can and cannot have.
JEFFREY: Right. This whole meeting is a Vulky idea, and you can have it without me.
(Jeffery leaves.)
EMH: Jeffrey, you are not excused!
CHARLENE: You've upset him. Let him go. I don't want to argue this in front of the children. We'll discuss it later.
(Charlene leaves.)
BELLE: You really made a mess of things, didn't you, Daddy?
EMH: Apparently so. Although I fail to understand their reaction. I'm just trying to help the family function better.
BELLE: How does it make the family function better if I go to Pareses Squares Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturday?
EMH: Belle, you've been playing with children two and three years older than you. That's much too dangerous.
BELLE: But that's what's fun about it.
EMH: You're not old enough to realise how hazardous that game can be. It's up to me to keep you safe. I'm just trying to be a good father.
BELLE: If it'll help, Daddy, I'll be on the second team.
EMH: Thank you, Belle. That's very grown up of you.
BELLE: And I think you're a very good father.
EMH: Why, thank you.
BELLE: I love you, Daddy, even if you did make a mess of things.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to Shuttlecraft Cochrane. Do you read?
PARIS: Loud and clear, Captain. I'm about three thousand kilometres from the eddy. As soon as it dissipates

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: I'll head for the particle wake.
JANEWAY: If this one follows the pattern of the others, it should begin to collapse within a few seconds.
PARIS [OC]: That's good.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I'm beginning to wish I hadn't had that second helping of French toast

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: This morning.
KIM: Captain, the eddy is starting to dissipate.
JANEWAY: Stand by, Tom.
PARIS [OC]: I'm ready.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I'm in position, Captain. Activating the Bussard collectors. It's working.

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: This may save us from Neelix's pleeka rind casserole after all.
JANEWAY: We'll all thank you for that.
KIM: Captain, subspace disruption.
JANEWAY: Is another eddy forming?
KIM: It looks that way.
JANEWAY: Tom, get out of there.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

JANEWAY [OC]: Now.
PARIS: I'm going.
(But the shuttlecraft gets sucked towards the centre of the eddy instead.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Harry, can you beam him out?
KIM: Transporters are offline.
TORRES: I'm working on them.
JANEWAY: Tom, are you there? Say again.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: It's pulling me in! I don't have enough power!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Where are the transporters?
TORRES: I can't access them.
KIM: The shuttle's being drawn inside the eddy.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris, do you read me?
TUVOK: Captain, the astral eddy is beginning to dissipate.
(It vanishes.)
JANEWAY: Harry, when the probe disappeared it kept transmitting. What about Tom's shuttle?
KIM: Getting a lot of interference. Can't tell if it's a transmission or not.
JANEWAY: See if you can clean it up.
KIM: I've adjusted the encoding filter. Try it now.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Tom Paris. Can you hear us? Respond. Calibrate to a theta band frequency. Maybe that'll help.
PARIS [OC]: I can't hear you, Captain. There's a lot of plasma interference. I can't clean it up.
JANEWAY: Say again, Tom. You're breaking up. Adjust your transceiver lock and try again.
PARIS [OC]: I can hear you. Is that better?
JANEWAY: Yes, a little. Where are you?

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: Captain, I wish I could tell you.
(It looks like a more benign version of the Badlands.)

[Doctor's office]

KES: Doctor? Can I help you with something?
EMH: Oh, no, no. Perhaps. I've been trying to do an immunogenicity analysis on Ensign Parson's cell culture, and I can't seem to get the measurements right.
KES: I'd be happy to give it a try.
EMH: Thank you, I'd be grateful.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Actually I've been having a few problems at home. I can't seem to stop thinking about them.
KES: Well, there's nothing important going on here. Why don't you take the afternoon off and spend some time with your family.
EMH: I'm not sure they'd appreciate it.
KES: Doctor, you can't just ignore them.
EMH: Computer, initiate Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho and transfer the EMH to Holodeck two.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho]

LARG: Then everything is done exactly
JEFFREY: Dad. What are you doing here?
EMH: I live here, Jeffrey, in case you've forgotten.
JEFFREY: I mean, you're home early.
EMH: Am I interrupting something?
JEFFREY: No, no, just talking with my friends.
EMH: I'd like to get to know your friends. Larg, K'kath, please sit down. What is that?
LARG: What?
EMH: You're holding something.
LARG: This?
EMH: Yes. What is it?
JEFFREY: It's a knife. What does it look like?
EMH: Why do you boys have a knife?
LARG: A d'k tahg knife is an important part of our culture. Every Klingon is given one at preparation for his Rite of Ascension.
EMH: Hmm.
(The EMH holds out his hand, and Larg gives him the knife, hilt first.)
EMH: I happen to know something about Klingon rituals, and I believe this is actually a dagger of kut'luch. Isn't it? Well?
LARG: Yes.
EMH: This dagger is used in a ritual of violence. A first blood-letting in preparation for becoming a warrior. Who's supposed to use this? Well? Is one of you preparing for the kut'luch ceremony? I'm waiting for an answer.
JEFFREY: Dad, you're making something out of nothing.
EMH: I don't think so. I'm going to have to ask you boys to leave.
JEFFREY: Dad.
EMH: And don't bring a weapon into this house again.
LARG: I told you. Humans are weak, cowardly.
JEFFREY: Call me later.
(Larg and K'kath leave.)
JEFFERY: Now look what you've done. You've ruined it!
EMH: What exactly have I ruined?
JEFFREY: Nothing. Never mind.
EMH: You were going to use that knife, weren't you? Did they talk you into some kind of ritual violence?
JEFFREY: They didn't talk me into anything. I asked them. It's an honour to get to perform the kut'luch. They don't just let anybody do it. They trusted me, and now you've made me look like a, like a human.
EMH: You were going to attack someone, draw blood, just so you could appear daring in the eyes of your friends?
JEFFREY: I was doing it to become honourable. Something that you wouldn't understand.
EMH: Jeffrey, how can I make you understand that what you are going to do is wrong.
JEFFREY: It isn't wrong, it's just the custom of another culture! Who are you to say there's something wrong about it.
EMH: I am your father and I expect you to be guided by my ethical standards.
JEFFREY: Well I'm not going to be. Your standards are human standards. They're weak and inferior. Klingon ideals are much nobler, and they are the one's I'm going to follow.
EMH: If you expect to live in this household you will abide by the rules.
JEFFREY: If that's the way you want it, then I won't live here.
EMH: Jeffrey, think about this.
JEFFREY: Oh, I've thought about it. I'm going to become a warrior, and I can't do that if I'm being led around on leash by some bloodless petaQ.
(Jeffery leaves the house. The monitor beeps.)
CHARLENE [on monitor]: Kenneth?
EMH: What is it? What's happened?
CHARLENE [on monitor]: It's Belle, there's been an accident.

[Holodeck - hospital room]

(Belle is lying very still in bed.)
CHARLENE: How is she?
EMH: Doctor Findlay and I operated on her for three hours. We've tried everything. We shut down one haemorrhage and another starts.
CHARLENE: I don't understand. She just hit her head on the corner of the court. How could that have injured her so badly?
EMH: She suffered severe cranial trauma. It's compromised her brain stem and motor cortex. No matter how we try to control the vascular injuries, blood clots keep forming. The haemorrhaging is intractable.
CHARLENE: Then what do you do? What's the treatment?
EMH: Unfortunately, the brain is still a somewhat mysterious organ.
CHARLENE: What does that mean? What's going to happen to her?
EMH: There's nothing more to be done. Nothing medical, anyway.
CHARLENE: But there has to be. Kenneth, you can do something. You have to. You can't just let her. No. No, I won't accept it. I'm going to talk to Doctor Findlay.
(Charlene leaves. The EMH sits in a chair in the shadows.)
EMH: Belle.
BELLE: Daddy?
(He hurries to her bedside.)
EMH: Yes, I'm here.
BELLE: Everything's all blurry. What's the matter?
EMH: You took a tumble, hit your head.
BELLE: It doesn't hurt.
EMH: No, because we gave you some medicine.
BELLE: Is that why I can't feel my legs?
EMH: Yes.
BELLE: What's going to happen? When will I be able to see again?
EMH: Computer, end programme!

[Sickbay]

(Kes enters.)
KES: Oh, you're back.
EMH: Yes.
KES: Did you find the culture I did on Ensign Parson's glial cells?
EMH: I did, thank you. Good job.

[Doctor's office]

KES: How's the family?
EMH: I suppose they're fine. I've actually finished the programme.
KES: Finished? Already?
EMH: Well, I got what I needed from the experience. It was thoroughly pleasurable, of course, but to continue would be a waste of time.
KES: I was hoping to visit them again. I really enjoyed our dinner together.
EMH: Well, if I ever create a new family, I'll be sure to invite you.

[Bridge]

TORRES: The communications bandwidth is as wide as I can get it.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris. How's the transmission now?
PARIS [OC]: Loud and clear, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I've been analysing the shuttle's sensor readings, and as nearly as I can figure, I'm in the interfold layer that we talked about

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: Somewhere between space and subspace.
JANEWAY: That's why we can't find you on any of our scans.
PARIS [OC]: Harry was right.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: This looks like the spawning ground for the astral eddies.

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: There are thousands of baby ones in here.
JANEWAY: That's very interesting, Tom, but it doesn't address the problem of how to get you out of there.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: Well, I've been giving that some careful thought, Captain, and it seems to me the only way to get out is the same way that I got in.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Inside one of the eddies?
PARIS [OC]: Exactly.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I've been watching one that seems about ready to erupt into normal space.

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: If I can position the shuttle on it's leading edge I should be able to ride it back.
JANEWAY: If I had another idea I'd suggest it, but I don't. It's your call, Tom.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I don't see that there's much choice. So far so good, Captain. I'm almost inside the eye. I think this one is just about big enough to enter normal space.

[Bridge]

KIM: Here he comes.
PARIS [OC]: Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes, Tom.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I think you should get Voyager away from here.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What's wrong?
PARIS [OC]: This one's turning out

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: To be a whopper. The biggest one we've seen by far. I don't think you should put the ship in danger.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: I'm not leaving, Tom. We've got to stay in close if we're going to beam you out.
TUVOK: The eddy is moving towards us at a velocity of three hundred kilometres per second.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, take the conn. Keep us ahead of it, but stay within transporter range.
CHAKOTAY: Right.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: I'm going to try to get out of this.
(Instead, the console explodes and Paris is thrown to the deck.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Harry, can you get a lock on him?
KIM: Not yet. Everything's too unstable.
JANEWAY: Tom, how much longer before you clear the eddy?

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

PARIS: It'd better be soon. The hull is beginning to buckle.

[Bridge]

TORRES: I've got the shuttle on sensors. The hull is breaching.
JANEWAY: Harry, can you get a lock on him yet?
KIM: I'm trying. Hang on. Got it! The shuttle's aboard, Captain. One life sign.
TORRES: He's injured.
JANEWAY: Beam him to Sickbay. Chakotay, move us away.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Your hard head has protected you again, Lieutenant. It was only a mild concussion.
PARIS: It was worth it, though. That was one wild ride.
EMH: I'm sure it was. And it's a wonder you're not dead. People like you who court danger should be thrown into the brig.
PARIS: Doc.
EMH: You never think of the consequences of your actions, the effect they might have on others. Oh, no, live for the moment, take risks you shouldn't. I'm sorry.
PARIS: Are you all right?
EMH: I. It's my family. My daughter Belle had an accident. She's a child who tends to take risks. She's going to die.
PARIS: I'm so sorry.
EMH: I'll be all right. I shut down the programme. I'm not going back.
PARIS: Maybe you should think about that, Doc.
EMH: I couldn't begin to face it. It was too difficult.
PARIS: I guess all of us would avoid that kind of pain if we could, but most people don't have that choice.
EMH: Well, fortunately, I do.
PARIS: Is it so fortunate? You created that programme so you could experience what it's like to have a family. The good times and the bad. You can't have one without the other.
EMH: I fail to see why not.
PARIS: Well, think about what's happened to us here on Voyager. Everyone left people behind, and everyone suffered a loss, but look how it's brought us all closer together. We found support here, and friendship, and we've become a family in part because of the pain we shared. If you turn your back on this programme, you'll always be stuck at this point. You'll never have the chance to say goodbye to your daughter, or to be there for your wife and son when they need you. And you'll be cheating yourself of the chance to have their love and support. In the long run, you'll miss the whole point of what it means to have a family.

[Holodeck]

EMH: Computer, continue Doctor's Family Programme Beta-Rho, from the last point of deactivation.

[Holodeck - hospital room]

(Holding Belle's hand.)
BELLE: Daddy, what's going to happen to me? When will I be able to see again?
EMH: I'm not sure. You're a very sick girl.
BELLE: Am I going to die?
EMH: You, you're too sick to get better.
BELLE: So I'm going to die?
EMH: Yes.
BELLE: If you'll stay with me, I won't be afraid.
EMH: I'll stay right here, I promise.
(Charlene and Jeffery enter.)
JEFFREY: Dad.
(The EMH and Jeffery hug while Charlene holds Belle's hand.)
JEFFERY: Here you go, shorty. It's your blanket.
CHARLENE: We're here, Belle. We're all here.
BELLE: It's getting darker. I'm sleepy.
EMH: It's all right. Go to sleep. We're all right here.
(Belle dies. Charlene, Jeffery and the EMH hug each other and weep.)


S3 E23
Distant Origin
Stardate: 50899.1
Original Airdate: 30 April, 1997

(Transcriber's note to those who have not actually seen this episode. The director, David Livingston, decided to use a wide angle lens and film the characters from a low level, looking up the actor's nostrils. Although it gives an alien aspect to the Voth, it is not a flattering view for Chakotay.)  
[Cave - Hanon IV]

(A volcano smoulders on a rocky planet. The same rocky planet where the Voyager crew were abandoned by Seska back in Basics. A pair of reptilian explorers discover the tatters of a Starfleet uniform and the bones of its wearer, Hogan. They have three fingers.)
VEER: Is there a genetic match?
GEGEN: Yes. Let's gather the find and bring it back to the ship.
VEER: Could this be it? The proof?
GEGEN: If it is, we've just made the most important discover in Voth history.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

(In space. What is left of the skeleton is reassembled on an autopsy table.)
VEER: Opposable thumb. Multiple articulation of the digits, as expected from a technologically advanced species.
GEGEN: His cranial capacity is twenty two percent smaller than ours, and he appears to be lacking a dilitus lobe.
VEER: He had no sense of smell?
GEGEN: If he did, it was rudimentary. I doubt this fellow would have enjoyed the sulphur lagoons of Hokath. His cartilaginous microstructure is extremely porous. Most likely warm-blooded. I believe this was a non-saurian.
VEER: Non-saurian? Doesn't that weaken our case?
GEGEN: No. No, the genetic markers we share with this being are undeniable. We are related, however distantly. The question we must answer is, what was our endotherm doing in this part of space?
VEER: Was he on an expedition? Did he have a ship? Crewmates?
GEGEN: This material. It's composed of synthetic polymers, and the molecular structure suggests replication technology. And consider the garment itself. Is this marking purely decorative, or does it have a symbolic function. Could it indicate status?
VEER: Possibly a military uniform.
GEGEN: At the very least, we can assume he was part of a social infrastructure. That would imply a ship. Did your eyes see the planet of our origin, the true home of our race? Was it beautiful? Was it covered by oceans, by sand? Were there nine moons above your head? Were there none? He appears to be at a loss for words. His ship and the people on it hold the key to where we came from. We've got to find it.
VEER: I'll contact our supporters at the Circle of Archaeology. They might be able to spare a research vessel, perhaps a few assistants.
GEGEN: This isn't a field trip, Veer! We need to mount a sector wide expedition, and that means a fleet of ships. We have to go directly to the Ministry of Elders.
VEER: Professor, don't you think that's a little precipitous?
GEGEN: Bone decalcification indicates he died more than a year old. His ship could be thousands of light years away by now! Time is running out. You must remember, Veer, from the moment you were initiated into my Circle, you made a commitment to the pursuit of scientific truth. Before this, all we had was a theory. Now we have proof. We simply have to get them to open their eyes and see it. We're going to set a course for the City Ship, present our friend here, and let him do the talking.

[Voth City Ship]

GEGEN: For millions of years our people have believed that we were the first intelligent beings to evolve in this region of space. The first race. This assumption underlies everything that we hold dear. But that belief has been questioned in recent years, not only by the Circles of Science and Philosophy, but by common people as well. Lying before you is proof of the Distant Origin theory. These remains demonstrate beyond doubt that we arose elsewhere in this galaxy, that we evolved on a far away planet, and travelled to this space millions of years ago, our true history lost.
(The leader is a female.)
ODALA: A pile of bones. Impressive.
GEGEN: This pile of bones belonged to a being who died approximately one a year ago, from a species found nowhere in known space, and yet we share forty seven genetic markers with this being. We are undoubtedly related to him, and I intend to prove to you that we evolved on the very same planet he did.
ODALA: And that planet is the long lost world of the Distant Origin theory?
GEGEN: Yes, that's exactly right. And to find that planet, our planet, we must find a living member of his kind. I've created a computer extrapolation. We're looking for a race of bipedal endotherms, spacefaring but technologically limited. Based on their cranial capacity I'd say they're no more advanced than most endotherms.
HALUK: Endotherms. You're proposing we're related to a mammalian species?
GEGEN: Yes. Which is why I ask your permission to launch an expedition.
ODALA: Let's talk about your discovery. I enjoyed the colourful tale of how you found these remains. It says here that you paid a substantial sum for their location.
GEGEN: I was dealing with traders. They knew the location of the cave. I had no choice.
ODALA: Have you considered you were the victim of a hoax?
GEGEN: I have analysed every micron of the skeleton. I assure you it's authentic.
ODALA: Professor Gegen, have you considered the wider implication of your theory?
GEGEN: What do you mean?
ODALA: By challenging Doctrine, you're suggesting that everything we believe about ourselves, our history, our ancient and rightful claim over this region of space, the authority of this Ministry itself, is a lie.
GEGEN: That's not what I'm saying at all. However, in the light of my discovery, some of our beliefs may have to be re-evaluated.
ODALA: Re-evaluated. We will consider your request for an expedition.
(The Elders leaves.)
VEER: Well done, Professor.
GEGEN: Hardly. I failed to anticipate the level of ignorance I would be facing.
VEER: What do we do now?
GEGEN: I want you to arrange a meeting with the Circle of Exobiology. We have supporters there.
(Veer leaves. Gegen's daughter enters.)
FROLA: Father, I'm concerned.
GEGEN: Unnecessarily.
FROLA: I don't think they were very receptive.
GEGEN: They don't need to be. The evidence will speak for itself. And word of my discovery is already travelling. If enough people confront the Ministry
FROLA: Mathematics was never your strong point, Father. You might be overestimating your support.
GEGEN: You don't believe me either, do you.
FROLA: I, I want to. Our ancestors came from somewhere else. We don't even belong here? It all just seems so incredible.
GEGEN: I'm disappointed in you.
FROLA: Father, please, let this go. You're chasing a fantasy and you're wasting your genius. I'm worried about what's going to happen to you if you don't stop.
GEGEN: What's going to happen to you if I do stop? To your children, to all of Voth. You'll continue to live in ignorance, progress held back by ancient myth. The truth must be known.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

VEER: We've got to leave. Now.
GEGEN: What's happened?
VEER: I met with the Circle of Exobiology. They're concerned. There have been rumours.
GEGEN: About what?
VEER: The Ministry has seized your research and they're planning to detain you.
GEGEN: On what charge?
VEER: Heresy against Doctrine.
GEGEN: I'll fight it!
VEER: It's too late. Your supporters are frightened. No one will back you.
GEGEN: I'll have to do this on my own, then. Go back to your family. As long as you're with me, you're at risk.
VEER: I'm not leaving you, Professor.
GEGEN: I've run an analysis on the uniform marking. I found what appears to be a microscopic identification code. The translation matrix indicates it's most likely a proper name.
VEER: A name?
GEGEN: Yes. I believe it's the name of the endotherm's vessel. We're looking for something called Voyager.

GEGEN [OC]: Across the vastness of space to find one ship among sea of stars is no simple matter, and for many weeks we found nothing. And then fortune glanced in our direction. A trader from a space station bordering the Nekrit Expanse informed us of a curious group of explorers, claiming to be from the other side of the galaxy. The merchants there spoke of a vessel called Voyager. They were able to help us clarify certain details. With this new information, we began to acquire other items and new evidence. Our most significant find, a canister of warp plasma from Voyager's engines. So now we are scanning space for a matching signature. Little is known about these explorers, but they call themselves human.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

GEGEN: and they claim to be traveling home to a distant planet. My thoughts are with you, Frola, as are those of my colleague, Veer. Ah, I've just sent a transmission to my daughter.
VEER: Was that wise?
GEGEN: I encrypted the carrier signal. There's no way to trace it.
VEER: I hope you gave her my regards.
GEGEN: Of course I did. I've seen the tint on your scales when she's around. I've let you into my academic circle, but now you wish to enter my family as well.
VEER: No, Professor, I would never presume.
GEGEN: You should know your place. Traditionally, my family mate with the family of Towt.
(Gegan's long tongue flicks out and gathers up some insects hovering around a bright light.)
GEGEN: But traditions are meant to be broken.
(The computer beeps.)
VEER: It's the plasma signature. Scanners have found a match. A ship ninety light years away. There are one hundred forty eight lifeforms aboard, travelling at warp six point two.
GEGEN: I'm engaging spatial displacement It's unlikely their primitive sensors will be able to detect us once we're out of phase. Take us out of transwarp, we don't want to pass them.
VEER: Done. I have an image. What do we say to them?
GEGEN: Nothing. Not at the moment. We stand to learn more by observing. Once we've collected the information we need, and if they appear non-violent, we'll make contact.
VEER: Entering portation range.
GEGEN: We'll be looking for their data storage devices, analysing their behaviour, anything that can tell us who and what these people are. Eyes open, Veer.

[Corridor]

(A crewman walks past Gegen and Veer.)
GEGEN: Interphase is stable.
VEER: Curious. I didn't expect the smell.
GEGEN: Well, they are mammals, after all. Ah, over here. This appears to be a computer access terminal. Simple binary system. I've downloaded their database.
PARIS: I'll bet you it's an anodyne relay.
TORRES: No way. A plasma conduit.
PARIS: Relay. I'm telling you. I checked the conduit network.
TORRES: My point exactly. You're not an engineer.
PARIS: I'll bet you.
TORRES: Name it.
(They walk on out of earshot.)
GEGEN: Male and female interacting. Let's observe.

[Engineering]

PARIS: Well?
TORRES: Well, go ahead and gloat.
PARIS: The anodyne relays. Who would have guessed?
TORRES: Just a shot in the dark.
PARIS: And it hit the bulls-eye. Tonight, you pay up. Holodeck two, Klingon martial arts programme, no getting out of it this time.
VEER: Courting behaviour?
GEGEN: Exactly. Note how the female through the feigned antagonism encourages the male in his attempt to mate.
VEER: There's no sign of vasodilatation in their skin.
GEGEN: Obviously they never evolved that ability, which would explain their reliance on crude verbal interplay.
PARIS: I'll see you tonight. BYOB.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Bring your own bat'leth.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: We've completed long range scans. If we maintain our present course we'll enter a region of heavy tetryon radiation within two days.
JANEWAY: What's the alternative?
CHAKOTAY: A three month detour.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, enhance the shields. Lieutenant, hold our course. Harry, continue your long range scans.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Let's access everything known about tetryon radiation. I want to take every precaution.
GEGEN: Well, Veer, what can you observe about their social structure?
VEER: It's obviously hierarchical, with clear differences in status and rank. The males appear to be subordinate to that female. Perhaps a matriarchy.
GEGEN: My conclusion exactly.
KIM: This is strange. I'm picking up spatial fluctuations. They're coming from the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: Not sure, but they're highly localised, with modulating phase variance. Looks like some kind of cloaking technology.
JANEWAY: All stop. Intruder alert.
GEGEN: We've exceeded our welcome. Let's get back to the ship.
VEER: What's wrong?
GEGEN: Some sort of forcefield.
TUVOK: I've erected a level ten containment field around the bridge, Captain.
KIM: Scanning on all subspace frequencies. I'm picking up two lifeforms.
CHAKOTAY: Localise them.
KIM: Mission Ops one.
VEER: Professor?
GEGEN: The forcefield is disrupting our interphase. I'm compensating. I can at least get us off this deck.
JANEWAY: Show yourselves.
KIM: Captain, the lifeforms left the bridge. They're now on deck two, section thirteen. Mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: Seal off the deck.
TUVOK: Deck two sealed. Security team to the mess hall.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Intruders? I don't see any intruders?
GEGEN: It would appear we've underestimated our endotherms.
VEER: We should make contact. Explain ourselves.
GEGEN: It may come to that.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, I've analysed the spatial phase variance.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Chakotay.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY [OC]: Adjust hand phasers to a dispersion frequency of one point eight five gigahertz. That should disrupt their cloaking technology.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.

[Mess hall]

GEGEN: I've matched the frequency of their shields. I think we can get off this
(Chakotay and his security team enter through one door, Tuvok and company through the other.)
TUVOK: Spatial fluctuations. There.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, get down!
(Neelix duck and Chakotay fires. The two Voth become visible. Veer fires a dart into Chakotay's shoulder, who collapses. Tuvok stuns Veer. Gegen goes to Chakotay and beams out with him.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Minor phaser burns to the upper thoracic region. Nothing serious. But I want to check for cellular damage.
KES: I'll run a microcellular scan.
EMH: Begin a DNA analysis as well, I'd like to know more about his molecular physiology.
JANEWAY: A belated welcome aboard. I'm Captain Janeway. Now, who are you and what have you done with my First Officer? You must have a ship. Is it cloaked? I'm not going to hurt you, we just want to know why you
(Veer stops clicking - talking without a translator - and closes his eyes.)
EMH: His heart rate and body temperature have dropped. His metabolism is almost completely shut down.
TUVOK: Is he dying?
EMH: I don't think so. His autonomic nervous system is still fully functional. He's gone into some sort of protective hibernation.
JANEWAY: Treat his injuries, then see if you can revive him. Examine his technology. I want to know what we're up against.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

GEGEN: Don't be alarmed. You're on my research vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.
GEGEN: Your instinct is to flee, but I must warn you, there's a confinement field around the table. Just stay calm and you won't hurt yourself.
CHAKOTAY: What do you want from me? Why did you invade our ship?
GEGEN: It wasn't an invasion. We were on a field expedition to learn more about your species. We meant no harm. I'm a molecular paleontologist.
CHAKOTAY: Do you always harpoon the local wildlife?
GEGEN: An unfortunate mistake. Veer is inexperienced and he panicked. Your people were firing at us. I couldn't get to him.
CHAKOTAY: So you took me instead.
GEGEN: Yes. A living specimen of human. I've been studying your computer database and I have many questions. The planet of your origin, correct?
CHAKOTAY: That's right. Earth.
GEGEN: Are there any of my kind there? Any of my species?
CHAKOTAY: Who are you?
GEGEN: Please, answer the question.
CHAKOTAY: Look, drop the forcefield and tell me what's going on. Then maybe we can make first contact in a civilized way. For what it's worth I'm a scientist, too. Maybe I can help you find whatever it is you're looking for. I won't bite. Thanks. My name's Chakotay.
GEGEN: Gegen.
CHAKOTAY: All right, Gegen, let's talk about Earth.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Your call sounded urgent.
EMH: With good reason. I've analysed the alien's DNA. There are forty seven genetic markers identical to those found in human DNA.
JANEWAY: That's more than coincidence.
EMH: I thought so too. I ran a search for those markers in Earth's paleo-ontological database. Take a look at this.
JANEWAY: Incredible!
EMH: That's one way of putting it.
JANEWAY: It says here that those markers appeared in hundred earth species, dating back tens of millions of. Their species evolved on Earth?
EMH: Apparently so. And from the look of it, you and he are distant cousins.
JANEWAY: I wonder how distant? Transfer yourself to Holodeck two. I think it's time we took a stroll through primeval history.

[Holodeck]

EMH: I've entered the genetic markers into the holo-database.
JANEWAY: Let's see if we can find our closet relative. Computer, analyse the genetic markers and search Earth's fossil record. Identify any ancestors common to both humans and the alien in sickbay.
COMPUTER: Life form found.
(A small quadruped._
JANEWAY: Display.
COMPUTER: Genus Eryops. Devonian Era.
EMH: Eryops. This creature lived over four hundred million years ago and is thought to be the last common ancestor of cold blooded and warm blooded organisms.
JANEWAY: Yes, yes. Let's take the next step in out little stroll. Computer, what's the most highly evolved cold-blooded organism to develop from the Eryops?
COMPUTER: Genus Hadrosaur. Cretaceous Era.
JANEWAY: Display the life form.
(Two metres tall, using its tail to help it stand upright.)
JANEWAY: As I recall, the Hadrosaur vanished when a mass extinction occurred at the end of the Cretaceous period. What if the Hadrosaur didn't die off? What if some of them survived that extinction and continued to evolve?
EMH: I could well imagine this creature giving rise to a more complex life form. Certainly the building blocks are there. Bipedal, grasping hands.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a genome projection algorithm. If the Hadrosaur had continued to evolve over the last sixty five million years, extrapolate the most probable appearance.
COMPUTER: Extrapolation complete.
JANEWAY: Display life form.
(A Voth.)
EMH: That creature napping in Sickbay is a dinosaur.
JANEWAY: The question is, why have we never seen him in the Natural History museums?

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

CHAKOTAY: If a saurian species had developed a language and technology, you'd think they would have left something behind. But, what if it evolved on am isolated continent?
GEGEN: A land mass that was destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: Earth has been devastated by countless natural disasters over the course of it's history. Asteroids, volcanoes, earthquakes. All evidence of your race could be at the bottom of the ocean or under kilometres of rock.
GEGEN: Obviously not all of my people became extinct. Some of them must have developed spacefaring technology and left the planet.
CHAKOTAY: And ended up here, in the Delta Quadrant.
GEGEN: Our true origin on Earth lost over the eons, replaced by Doctrine, the myth that we were the First Race. Now you understand why I had to find your ship.
CHAKOTAY: Next time you might try a simple hello first.
GEGEN: Eyes open. I'm afraid I let my own prejudice get in the way. I was wary of you. We have very poor relations with non-saurian races. Mammals in particular are considered to be a lower life form, but I must admit I've never gotten to know one before.
CHAKOTAY: I hope I've made a good impression.
GEGEN: In fact, you have.
CHAKOTAY: Well I suggest we get back to Voyager. Your friend Veer is probably sick of the mammalian food by now.
GEGEN: I can't do that.
CHAKOTAY: Why not?
GEGEN: I've already made arrangements to meet my supporters on the Fourth Colony. They're waiting for us.
CHAKOTAY: Tell them we'll be late.
GEGEN: You don't understand what I'm up against. I'm being charged with heresy against Doctrine. You're my only evidence. If enough people see living proof of my theory, even the Ministry will be forced to acknowledge the truth. I can't let you go now. Not until it's over. I'm sorry.

[Science Lab]

PARIS: This should do the trick.
(Paris places Veer's cloaking device on -)
TUVOK: An apple.
PARIS: You said you wanted an organic test subject.
TUVOK: I was referring to a bio-cylinder. But the fruit will suffice.
PARIS: Let's give it a try.
TUVOK: Fascinating. This alien device is apparently pushing the apple slightly out of phase with our space-time continuum.
PARIS: A personal cloaking device.
TUVOK: More advanced than any cloak I have ever seen.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm reading a massive spatial displacement dead ahead.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
KIM: We're being probed.
JANEWAY: Shields at maximum. Hail them.
KIM: No response. They're locking onto the ship with an energy beam. It's cutting right through our shields. It's some sort of transporter.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We've been beamed inside the alien vessel.
JANEWAY: We're losing power. Switch to auxiliary.
KIM: I'm locked out of command control. All systems are shutting down.
(Voyager goes dark and quiet.)
JANEWAY: Arm yourselves.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge. Captain Janeway, respond.
PARIS: Turbolifts are offline. Let's get to a Jefferies tube.
(Something chitters nearby.)
PARIS: Tuvok, I hope that's your stomach.
TUVOK: My tricorder's not working. There appears to be a dampening field
PARIS: Tuvok?
(Tuvok pulls a dart from his back. Paris' phaser doesn't work.)
TUVOK: Go!
PARIS: I'm not going to leave you.
TUVOK: That's an order, Lieutenant.
(Paris goes into the Jefferies tube, and Tuvok slumps against the access panel.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I can't get a single relay back online. Somehow they've locked us out of all primary systems.
JANEWAY: Let's get down to main Engineering. We can access the manual override from there, and
HALUK: Your vessel is under our control.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

GEGEN: It's an automated message from the Ministry of Elders. It says that they've captured the Voyager. That if I don't return to the City Ship and face my accusers they'll destroy my evidence, kill everyone on board.
CHAKOTAY: What are you going to do?
GEGEN: I won't be responsible for those deaths. But if I go back now without my support, they'll discredit my theory, suppress the truth.
CHAKOTAY: That might be difficult with the evidence standing right beside you. They've taken my ship. It sounds to me like we're all on trial here.
GEGEN: I've just laid in a course for the City Ship.

[Ready room]

HALUK: We are looking for two of our own kind. One was found in your medical bay. Where is the other?
JANEWAY: I don't know. He took my First Officer and disappeared.
HALUK: Our scans indicate that your ship is alone. Where do you come from?
JANEWAY: If you want my co-operation, I suggest you release my vessel.
HALUK: You are non-indigenous beings. You have no rights under Doctrine. Where do you come from?
JANEWAY: Apparently, we're from the same place you are. Earth.
HALUK: I see that Gegen has begun spreading his lies.

[Engineering]

(A single Voth sees an auxiliary systems monitor flashing - Weapons System Manual Override Authorization Paris Alpha 240. Paris then decloaks and knocks him out. Emergency Com System Active.)
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.

[Ready room]

PARIS [OC]: Captain, if you can hear me, I've got weapons control, and I've armed a full spread of torpedoes.
HALUK: Who's that?
JANEWAY: My helmsman. Sounds like he's about to blast a hole in the side of your ship. Lieutenant Paris, fire. You might want to hold onto something.

[Engineering]

COMPUTER: Launch protocols have been disrupted.
PARIS: Switch to auxiliary protocols.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Weapons systems are offline.
PARIS: How?
COMPUTER: Method unknown.
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS [OC}: Captain, someone on the alien vessel detected my launch sequence. I don't know how they did it, but I'm completely locked out.
JANEWAY: Nice try, Tom.
HALUK: Haluk to Command. Voyager's Captain is proving uncooperative. I request an interrogation surgeon to assist with
VOTH [OC]: That won't be necessary. Gegen is in custody. Remain in the Voyager and wait for further instructions.

[Voth City Ship]

ODALA: Professor Forra Gegen, you are accused of heresy against Doctrine. Do you wish to retract your claims regarding the Distant Origin theory?
GEGEN: I do not.
ODALA: Then we will proceed. Three months ago you circulated a study criticising what you call resistance to truth, once again disputing Doctrine.
GEGEN: I apologise if I wrote anything that offended the Elders, but I never even mentioned the word Doctrine.
ODALA: You didn't have to. Your meaning was clear. For nearly a decade, you've used the Distant Origin theory to attack and undermine the guiding principles of our society.
GEGEN: Not so. I've been pursuing a scientific investigation. I'm not concerned at all with Doctrine.
ODALA: My point exactly. Your disregard for the effects of your casual theorising is why you stand accused. You are reckless and irresponsible, and you are a destructive influence to our society. But it is not too late for you to redress the damage you have done. Disavow your claims, acknowledge your mistakes and this Ministry will show you leniency.
GEGEN: I'm sorry. I can't deny the evidence. The proof is standing right beside me.
ODALA: Proof. Really. Our scientists have analysed your data. Their conclusion? These creatures are not related to us at all. The genetic similarities are a result of random convergence, nothing more.
CHAKOTAY: If I may speak? Voyager's database contains a complete fossil record of my planet. Your genetic markers appear not only in humans but in hundreds of species throughout our history. That's a lot of random convergence. If you'd take a look at the data
ODALA: We have. The data is not in question. Your interpretation is. Professor Gegen, I don't want to be here any more than you do, and frankly I would prefer not to be responsible for disgracing one of our most venerable scientists. All I ask is that you admit the possibility that your interpretation is wrong. Will you at least do that?
GEGEN: I will admit that there are still questions. The picture is incomplete. But I am certain of this. We are from the planet that these humans call Earth.
ODALA: There are those who disagree.
(Veer is summoned.)
ODALA: Tova Veer, you are an accomplished young scientist. You were initiated into the Circle of Archeology with the highest of honours.
VEER: Yes, Minister.
ODALA: And you have been Professor Gegen's assistant for six years.
VEER: I have had that privilege.
ODALA: You are familiar, intimately involved with all of your mentor's research regarding the so-called Distant Origin theory?
VEER: That is correct.
ODALA: In your expert evaluation, what is the validity of the Professor's analysis.
VEER: It is flawed, Minister.
GEGEN: Veer!
ODALA: You're saying you and Gegen were mistaken?
VEER: Yes. I've reviewed all of his research, including data from the Voyager's computer. I've checked and rechecked the procedures. I now believe that we were overzealous. We saw an evolutionary connection when in fact there was none.
ODALA: Enthusiasm and passion are never wrong, Veer. Your only mistake was allowing them to distort your judgment. You may go. Professor Gegen, I will ask you again. Could you be mistaken?
GEGEN: What did you say to him. That you'd take away his honours if he didn't cooperate? That you'd send him to a detention colony?
ODALA: Could you be mistaken!
GEGEN: Did you threaten his family?
ODALA: Respond to the question!
GEGEN: No! Why should I? You've already made up your mind! This inquiry isn't about evidence and proof, it's about keeping you in that chair!
CHAKOTAY: Gegen!
GEGEN: It's about maintaining a myth that keeps the Ministry in power. You'd do anything to silence me. Well, it won't work. I'll never retract my claims. I'd rather go to prison than help you perpetuate ignorance.
ODALA: Your true scales are finally showing.
GEGEN: You're right, Minister. I was mistaken. I thought you might actually care about the truth, even if it called into question some of our deepest beliefs.
ODALA: We are not immigrants! I will not deny twenty million years of history and Doctrine just because one insignificant Saurian has a theory. One last time. Could you be mistaken?
CHAKOTAY: It's you who are mistaken, Minister.
ODALA: What?
CHAKOTAY: You accuse Gegen of having his objectivity clouded by wishful thinking, but aren't you guilty of the same charge?
ODALA: I am not on trial here.
CHAKOTAY: I understand, but in a way your beliefs are. How you think about yourselves, your place in the universe, that is on trial. And this isn't the first time.
ODALA: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I've had the opportunity over the last few days to learn something about your culture, your great accomplishments. Consider the breakthrough into Transwarp, an incredible achievement, and yet, your ancient Doctrine predicted terrible disasters if it were even attempted. That held your race back for millennia, until someone took a chance and challenged that prediction. They succeeded, and your society entered a new chapter of exploration, and your Doctrine was changed accordingly. I know from the history of my own planet that change is difficult. New ideas are often greeted with scepticism, even fear. But sometimes those ideas are accepted, and when they are progress is made. Eyes are opened.
ODALA: When I open my eyes to this theory, what I see appalls me. I see my race fleeing your wretched planet, a group of pathetic refugees crawling and scratching their way across the galaxy, stumbling into this domain. I see a race with no birthright, no legacy. That is unacceptable.
CHAKOTAY: I see something very different, Minister. An ancient race of Saurians, probably the first intelligent life on Earth, surrounded by some of the most terrifying creatures that ever lived. And yet they thrived, developed language and culture and technology. And when the planet was threatened with disaster, they boldly launched themselves into space, crossed what must have seemed like unimaginable distances, facing the unknown every day. But somehow they stayed together, kept going, with the same courage that had served them before, until they reached this quadrant, where they laid the foundation of what has become the great Voth culture. Deny that past, and you deny the struggle and achievements of your ancestors. Deny your origins on Earth, and you deny your true heritage.
ODALA: Do you retract your claims?
GEGEN: No. I stand by them.
ODALA: Very well. It is my judgment that you will suffer the consequences of your obstinacy. Gegen, you are guilty of heresy against Doctrine, and will be placed on a detention colony. For as long as you breathe you will neither teach or engage in research. Your life as a scientist has ended.
GEGEN: As you wish.
ODALA: Chakotay of the Voyager starship. You, your captain and her crew will join Professor Gegen.
GEGEN: Why? You have nothing to gain by imprisoning them. Let them go.
ODALA: You will spend the remainder of your lives on a detention colony. Your ship will be destroyed.
GEGEN: Minister.
ODALA: You will surrender your vessel immediately and inform your crew that this judgment will be
GEGEN: Stop this, please!
ODALA: Are you offering me an alternative?
GEGEN: I have reconsidered, and I retract my claims regarding the Distant Origin theory. My analysis of the data was obviously flawed. I was mistaken.
ODALA: You are prepared to refute your work publicly before the Circles of Science?
GEGEN: Yes.
ODALA: You will then be assigned to another area of research. Surely paleontology has become tiresome to you after so many years. Perhaps metallurgical analysis would be a more rewarding vocation for you.
GEGEN: Perhaps.
ODALA: I am not unreasonable. You were drawn into this situation through no fault of your own. You are to be returned to your ship, where you will set course away from our territory. It would be in your best interest if I never saw you again.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]

GEGEN: I am not so good at chemistry. My career as a metallurgical scientist is likely to be undistinguished.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry.
GEGEN: I was foolish, arrogant, and I lost everything.
CHAKOTAY: You were courageous, just as the Voth have always been from the first time they left Earth.
GEGEN: And you, Chakotay, have been a colleague, a friend. I will not forget you.
CHAKOTAY: There's something else I hope you never forget. 
(He gives Gegen a small globe of Earth.)
GEGEN: Some day every Voth will see this as home.
CHAKOTAY: Some day. Eyes open.
GEGEN: Eyes open.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Energise.


S3 E24
Displaced
Stardate: 50912.4
Original Airdate: 14 May, 1997

[Corridor - Deck six]
(Torres comes out of the holodeck, holding a bat'leth, which say to me that this story follows straight after Distant Origin.)
PARIS: Where are you going? You were doing great. You were in perfect position to deliver the death blow. All you had to do was follow through. Come on, let's try it again.
TORRES: Don't push me, Tom.
PARIS: I am not pushing you, I'm encouraging you.
TORRES: To do what?
PARIS: Try something new. This martial arts programme is the best work out I've ever had. No, it's more than that. Working with a bat'leth is an art. You have to use your mind and body, your movements
TORRES: Look, you may find all of this Klingon stuff really fascinating, but I don't. I'm not going to waste my time trying to disembowel a bunch of holographic monsters. I only came down here because you tricked me into that stupid bet!
PARIS: Would you watch it? You could take somebody's head off with that thing.
TORRES: I have tried this, and now I am finished. Got it?
PARIS: Look, if you don't like the programme, that's fine. But why do you always have to get so hostile?
TORRES: I am not hostile!
(A humanoid dressed in grey appears.)
DAMMAR: Where am I?
PARIS: Paris to Bridge. We have an alien visitor on deck six.
DAMMAR: What do you want with me? Why have I been abducted?
TORRES: We didn't abduct you. You just appeared here. We had nothing to do with it.
DAMMAR: What is this place?
PARIS: You're on a starship called Voyager. Where were you before?
DAMMAR: My colony on Nyria Three. I was walking home, and then I was here.
PARIS: What's wrong?
DAMMAR: It's cold here, and too bright.
TORRES: Let us take you to Sickbay. Our Doctor can run some scans. Maybe we can get some answers.

[Sickbay]

(In semi-darkness.)
EMH: I've increased the temperature to forty five degrees Celsius, and the light level should be more comfortable for you now.
DAMMAR: Yes, thank you. You're very considerate. I hope you'll excuse my initial suspicion. This experience has been very unnerving.
JANEWAY: I'd feel the same way in your place.
TUVOK: Do your people possess technology which could have transported you here?
DAMMAR: Not that I know of. I've heard of other races that have it. Maybe of them brought be here, but I can't imagine why.
EMH: Please describe the physical sensation of your experience.
DAMMAR: First I felt light-headed, and then everything around me seemed to bend or ripple. There was a moment of blackness and I felt a curious sensation of insects crawling on my skin. And then I found myself on your ship.
EMH: Interesting. I'll run a microcellular scan for residual energy traces.
TUVOK: Can you tell us where your colony is located?
DAMMAR: We're on the third planet of the Nyrian system, a red giant star with a large cloud of interstellar dust just beyond the fifth planet.
JANEWAY: Doesn't sound like any system we've encountered. Unfortunately our knowledge of this area of space is limited. I'd like you to look at a star chart to see if you recognise any astronomical markers.
DAMMAR: Of course.
JANEWAY: In the meantime my crew has begun scanning the area for any clues about what happened to you.
EMH: Lieutenant, if you don't mind.
TUVOK: Where is Kes today?
EMH: I don't know. She's late for her duty shift. Computer, locate Kes.
COMPUTER: Kes is not on board Voyager.
JANEWAY: When did she leave?
COMPUTER: Eleven hundred thirty two hours.
JANEWAY: What time did our alien visitor come on board?
COMPUTER: Eleven hundred thirty two hours.

[Engineering]

KIM: There's nothing to indicate that any other ships have been in this area for weeks, and the nearest inhabited world is over ten light years away.
TORRES: Whoever or whatever did this had to leave some energy trace.
KIM: Internal sensors aren't showing anything unusual in the corridor where the Nyrian appeared, or Kes's last known location.
TORRES: Then let's concentrate on the time. Run a level one analysis on all sensor readings, internal and external, at the exact moment it happened.
KIM: I'll get it started. It may take a while.
TORRES: You don't think I'm hostile, do you?
KIM: I er, wouldn't describe you that way, no.
TORRES: I know I have a temper, but that doesn't mean I'm always hostile, does it?
KIM: No, of course not.
TORRES: I'm forthright, I speak my mind, but that's very different from being hostile.
KIM: Very different.
TORRES: And if someone described me that way, they'd be way off of the mark, wouldn't they.
KIM: Way off.
TORRES: Then why do you look like you're afraid for your life?
(Saved by the beeps.)
TORRES: What is this?
KIM: Looks like a surge of polaron particles.
TORRES: Localise the source, I'll try to increase the sensor resolution. Do you have anything yet? Harry? Torres to bridge. Ensign Kim just disappeared.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: And we just got another visitor.
(A dark-skinned young woman. A crewman vanishes in a corridor and a Nyrian appears in the Paxau Resort holoprogramme. Later -)
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, have you made any progress?
TUVOK: Increasing the shield strength has had no apparent effect. However, it
(Tuvok vanishes. A Nyrian appears in another part of the ship.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Welcome to Sickbay. Take a number.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: In the last three hours we've lost twenty two of our people. According to the Nyrians, they've all showed up on their colony as though we're switching places.
PARIS: I went over our navigational charts with Dammar, but he's completely unfamiliar with this part of space. For all we know, that colony could be thousands of light years away.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what might be causing these transfers?
TORRES: I'm not sure. Harry and I detected a surge of polaron particles right before he disappeared. They created a spatial distortion field around him but it collapsed as soon as he vanished.
PARIS: Could it have been some kind of spatial anomaly?
TORRES: It could have been anything. A naturally occurring phenomenon, like a wormhole of a subspace flow field, or a kind of technology like our transporters.
JANEWAY: All right, get back to your stations and keep looking. Confine the Nyrians to the cargo bays and post security details at every access point.
CHAKOTAY: In all fairness, Captain, they haven't been threatening in any way. They seem as puzzled by all this as we are.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, I don't care how they seem. All I care about is that I've had a knot in my stomach since the first Nyrian arrived. Something about this is wrong, I can smell it. Look at us, running around the ship, checking sensors and spinning theories, while the Nyrians slowly replace our crew. Consider this. There has been a consistent interval of nine minutes and twenty seconds between these exchanges. At that rate, our entire crew will be gone in eighteen hours. Tell me that doesn't put a knot in your stomach. You have your orders.

Captain's log, stardate 50912.4. It's been twelve hours since these mysterious exchanges began, and we still haven't discovered their cause. I've already lost over half my crew.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Cargo Bay two is almost full. We'll have to start converting the shuttle bays.
JANEWAY: Then do it. I want them where we can keep an eye on them.
CHAKOTAY: I'll have to reassign more crewmembers to security. Our ranks are getting a little thin.
JANEWAY: Shut down everything but the ship's essential functions. We'll be operating on a skeleton crew before long.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: B'Elanna, you've developed a theory about what's happening?
TORRES: A Nyrian astrophysicist who arrived about an hour ago told me about some strange graviton fluctuations they detected at their colony. I ran some scans on this end and found the same thing.
JANEWAY: A wormhole?
TORRES: Possibly a baby one. And if I'm right, one end is opening intermittently inside Voyager. We could have past through it while it was forming and snagged on it somehow.
CHAKOTAY: Then how do we get it unsnagged?
TORRES: Now that I have this new information I'd like to have another talk with Rislan, the Nyrian scientist.
JANEWAY: Is Neelix still helping out with the new arrivals?
CHAKOTAY: I think he's in Cargo Bay two now.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix.
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix here, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'd like you to find one of the Nyrians who
(Janeway vanishes.)
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Captain Janeway. I lost contact. What did you say?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Neelix. The Captain's gone. We need you to find a Nyrian scientist called Rislan and get him to Engineering as soon as you can.
NEELIX [OC]: Right away, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Do what you have to do to get some answers, B'Elanna.

[Cargo Bay two]

NEELIX: Excuse me, are you Doctor Rislan?
RISLAN: It's still too cold in here.
NEELIX: I'll adjust the environmental controls. Again. But I must ask you
RISLAN: And the air is too humid.
NEELIX: I'll take care of it right away, but I must ask you to go to our Engineering room. I believe you're urgently needed.
RISLAN: I trust it'll be suitably warm and dark there.
NEELIX: We'll make sure you're comfortable. A security guard will escort you.
SECURITY: Right away, sir.

[Bridge]

(Chakotay is running the ship from the helm. He has one other bridge crew, a young woman.)
LANG: Commander, there's a problem with the internal sensors on deck four. It looks like a circuit relay malfunction.
CHAKOTAY: I can't spare anyone for repairs. You'll have to make do. How do you like your first day as Chief of Security, Ensign?
LANG: It's everything I dreamed it of, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Who says there's no room for advancement on this ship.
LANG: Another disappearance. It's Neelix.
CHAKOTAY: How many people does that leave us?
LANG: Forty.
CHAKOTAY: More than one hundred Nyrians. I want access to all systems restricted to authorised voice prints only. Seal off any part of the ship that we're not using and place security forcefields around sensitive areas. Warp core, armoury, torpedo bays. And let's hope I'm just being paranoid.

[Engineering]

RISLAN: If you as me, a tetryon scan is a waste of time. A multispectral sweep would be much more useful.
TORRES: Actually, I didn't ask, and I've already initiated the tetryon scan.
RISLAN: You're the expert.
TORRES: Neutrinos, ionised hydrogen, theta band radiation.
RISLAN: Just what you'd expect to find in a wormhole.
TORRES: It's what we're not finding that I'm interested in. The scan shows no quantum level fluctuations whatsoever.
RISLAN: That's not so unusual.
TORRES: It's more than unusual, it's impossible. I don't think this is a wormhole at all.
RISLAN: Perhaps it's a subspace flow field then.
TORRES: I'm going to run a pattern analysis with the original data. No, definitely not a flow field. The spatial harmonics are incompatible. I don't think this is a natural phenomenon.
(Rislan knocks out his guard and takes his phaser.) 
RISLAN: Don't move. I won't hurt you unless you force me to.
TORRES: Your people have been behind this all along. What are you doing?
RISLAN: Moving you to the head of the line.

[Habitat]

(A quite attractive outdoor place, with lots of flowers.)
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, are you all right?
TORRES: Captain, the Nyrians are responsible for the exchanges. I think they have some kind of technology.
(Two armed Nyrian guards enter. One takes Torres' comm. badge, then they leave.)
TORRES: What do they want with us?
JANEWAY: I don't know. They refuse to answer any questions.
KES: They've given us food, water and medical supplies. Everything but information.
TORRES: Where's the rest of the crew.
JANEWAY: In other compounds just like this one, scattered throughout the woods.
TORRES: This doesn't seem like a Nyrian colony. It's not warm enough or dark enough for them.
PARIS: Exactly. It's more like an idyllic version of Earth. As though it were created specifically for us.
TORRES: Do we have any idea what planet we're on?
JANEWAY: Not yet. I sent Tuvok to investigate the other compounds and see what he could find out. Until be gets back, all we have are unanswered questions.

[Bridge]

LANG: Decks eleven through fifteen are completely shut down. Most of the remaining crew are on security detail near the cargo and shuttle bays.
CHAKOTAY: What, all thirteen of them?
LANG: Twelve, sir.
GENNARO [OC]: Crewman Gennaro to bridge. I'm in Engineering and I just found Ensign Molina. He's unconscious but okay.
CHAKOTAY: What about the Nyrian scientist he was watching?
GENNARO [OC]: There's no sign of him, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Find him. That's a priority.
LANG: Where are you going?
CHAKOTAY: To have a talk with the Nyrians.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The cargo bay is empty of life.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to all hands. Security alert. The Nyrians may be trying to take control of the ship. Everyone, get to the bridge or main Engineering and secure them against possible intruders.

[Jefferies tube]

DAMMAR: Second team, take control of weapons.

[Bridge]

(Two crew come to help Lang.)
LANG: Start by reinforcing the containment fields. Reroute emergency power. We've got to seal those doors.
(Too late. The Nyrians enter. Lang shoots two before being shot herself. There is another very brief battle in Engineering.)

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: They're everywhere. They're even decrypting our access codes. The Nyrians obviously prepared for this before they got here. They must have tapped into our computer somehow, gotten enough information to plan this mission down to the letter.
(Chakotay suddenly realises he is talking to himself.)
CHAKOTAY: Larsen? Chakotay to anybody who's left. Please respond.
GENNARO [OC]: Gennaro here sir.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody else? The two of us aren't going to win this, so we might as well make life as difficult for the Nyrians as we can. Sabotage everything you can get your hands on.
GENNARO [OC]: Understood.
CHAKOTAY: Good luck.

[Bridge]

DAMMAR: What's our status?
RISLAN: We have shut off their security measures on all decks. We should have full computer access soon, but their navigational controls are not working.
DAMMAR: Not working?
RISLAN: There are two humans still moving through the ship. They seem intent on causing damage.
DAMMAR: Find them.
(Dammar takes the Captain's chair.)
RISLAN: They're sabotaging the power systems. The anti-matter reactor's shutting down.
(Chakotay turns the lights on full in Engineering. The Nyrians there flee.)
NYRIAN 1: What happened?
NYRAIN 2: This way.

[Cargo Bay two]

COMPUTER: Warning. Disabling lateral EPS relays may disrupt computer functions throughout the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hope so. Chakotay to Gennaro. They're trying to delete the Doctor's programme. Are you anywhere near Sickbay? Gennaro? Computer, how long ago did Crewman Gennaro leave the ship?
COMPUTER: Seven minutes and twenty seconds.

[Bridge]

RISLAN: I've located the last human. He's on the fifth deck.
DAMMAR: Send a patrol to stop him.
RISLAN: I already have.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Activate Emergency Medical Holographic programme.
EMH: Please state the nature. Hello?
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, over here.
EMH: Commander, what's happening?
CHAKOTAY: You're program's going to be deleted unless I can download you into the mobile emitter before I disappear, which should be any second now.
(The Nyrians start to force open the door. The EMH hypos the first one, blocking the door.)
CHAKOTAY: Got it!
(The EMH vanishes. Chakotay palms the mobile emitter as the other Nyrians enter.)
CHAKOTAY: All right. I know when to quit.

[Habitat]

EMH: I've never been completely cut off from the ship before. What if the emitter's power supply runs out?
TORRES: Let's hope we're not stuck here long enough to find out.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, what did you learn?
TUVOK: There are ten compounds like this one, spread over approximately four square kilometres. They are surrounded on all sides by wilderness.
(A Nyrian woman speaks.)
TALEEN: Could I have your attention? Now that you've all arrived here safely I'd like to welcome you to your new home.
JANEWAY: I'm not particularly interested in being welcomed. Why have you brought us here?
TALEEN: Your vessel will be used to defend Nyrian acquisitions.
CHAKOTAY: Is this the way you operate, gradually changing places with the crew of a ship?
TALEEN: Ships, colonies, spacestations. We've found it's much more effective than warfare. We aren't a cruel people. We've tried to make this experience as painless as possible. And as you can see, we've gone to great lengths to create an environment in which you will be comfortable.
JANEWAY: Nonetheless, we are being held here against our will.
TALEEN: Well, I'm afraid that's unavoidable. But I think you'll be happy here. The food dispensers have been programmed with selections from your own computer files. We have even downloaded literature and entertainment from your cultural database.
CHAKOTAY: What happens if we try to leave this little paradise?
TALEEN: I think you'll find there's nowhere to go.
JANEWAY: We don't accept that. We will find a way out of here.
TALEEN: Captain, your lack of gratitude is unbecoming. You and your crew could have found yourselves somewhere far less hospitable.
CHAKOTAY: It's still a prison.
TALEEN: If you want to be miserable here, that is your choice. But since there's nothing you can do about your situation, I suggest you accept it. Gracefully. We're ready now.
(The Nyrians beam away.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok, tell me about this wilderness you've found. How rugged is it? Can we walk out?
TUVOK: I don't believe so. In every direction I went, I encountered a natural barrier. A sheer cliff, an impassable river. These obstacles completely surround the colony.
CHAKOTAY: A perfectly isolated area. Doesn't that seem a bit convenient?
JANEWAY: This place does have an artificial quality. l wouldn't be surprised if the whole thing is holographic, and the wilderness was created to keep us from exploring too far.
KIM: Captain.
(One of the rocks is fuzzy. An alien steps through it.)
JARLATH: Sorry for the intrusion, but l wanted to welcome you. I'm Jarlath, your neighbour.
JANEWAY: Where did you come from?
JARLATH: My people live in the other environment, through that portal. It's quite different, more desert-like. This place is so green, but I'm sure it's suitable for you. The Nyrians undoubtedly had a good look through your databanks.
TUVOK: Were your people brought here by the Nyrians?
JARLATH: They took us one by one. Ah, is this what you eat?
JANEWAY: They took you from your colony?
JARLATH: They claimed not to know what was happening, and by the time we got suspicious, there were too many of them. We've been here ever since.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea where here is?
JARLATH: No. Mmm, not bad. Would you be interested in trading for some of these? The last inhabitants of this environment had no concept of a barter system, but you strike me as a much more sophisticated group.
JANEWAY: If there were people here before us, maybe we could get out the same way.
JARLATH: Oh, l don't think you'd like their method of escape. They all died from a plague.
KIM: Captain, there must be some kind of forcefield here, but I can't find it.
JARLATH: Pretty well camouflaged, isn't it? It took are almost nine years to find the portal.
TORRES: How did you get it open?
JARLATH: Well, I, I have my ways.
JANEWAY: I consider that information a valuable commodity.
JARLATH: Well, I'd be happy to make a trade, but the portal only leads into our environment. You're welcome to visit, of course.
JANEWAY: There may be other portals, if you can show us how to find them.
JARLATH: I look forward to our collaboration.
(Night time. Torres is fiddling with the EMH's mobile emitter.)
TORRES: What do you see now?
EMH: Fascinating. Everything is glowing with it's own energy. Even the plants are emitting a faint thermal signature. It's really quite lovely.
TORRES: Aside from the aesthetic consideration, how's your optical resolution?
PARIS: The Captain sent me down to get an update.
TORRES: Well, we're just about ready. I've reconfigured the Doctor's optical sensors and as soon as they're aligned he should be able to detect the microwave signature of the portals.
EMH: Then I can begin my new career as a tricorder.
TORRES: About the other day. I might have been a bit oversensitive about the Klingon programme.
PARIS: Don't worry about it.
TORRES: That should just about do it. I think we can start scanning now.
PARIS: Good. I'll tell the Captain. Er, about the programme. I didn't mean to push you.
TORRES: I know. You didn't, and I didn't mean to lash out at you like that.
EMH: A typical defensive reaction. Using an aggressive outburst as a shield against a perceived emotional threat.
PARIS: That says it, all right.
TORRES: Oh, that's very funny coming from you.
PARIS: And what is that supposed to mean?
TORRES: Well, you're hardly one to talk about being defensive.
PARIS: And why is that exactly?
TORRES: Well, you just pretend that nothing bothers you and then you turn everything into a joke.
EMH: That's a valid observation. Defence mechanisms come in many forms.
PARIS: That's ridiculous. I am an easy-going person, who is just trying to be friendly to someone who is obviously terrified of having a friend.
EMH: Fear of intimacy is a common indication of low self-esteem. Perhaps if you stopped to analyze the root cause, you might
(Torres shuts him up via the emitter.)
TORRES: If you find it so difficult to be my friend, then why keep trying?
PARIS: That's a good question. I think I'll stop wasting my time.
(Paris leaves. The EMH presents his emitter for resetting. Elsewhere, Tuvok and Chakotay are working at a table.)
NEELIX: I pulled a power cell and some relay circuits out of a food dispenser. And this little thing looks like some sort of capacitor.
TUVOK: It should do. If you can find another like this one, we'll be able to construct a second weapon.
CHAKOTAY: You're assuming the first one will work.
TUVOK: Yes.
NEELIX: I'll get on it right away. Maybe if I take apart the sonic shower assembly.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to give you credit, Tuvok, working on the fly with nothing but random parts, with no guide to follow. I never thought Vulcans had much of a knack for improvising.
TUVOK: Our circumstances seem to require a certain flexibility.
CHAKOTAY: You could say that. This reminds me of those survival classes they put us through at the Academy. Surprise tactical simulations, getting dropped off in the woods with no chance to prepare. They certainly taught you to live by your wits.
TUVOK: That was a lesson I had already learned. During the Rite of Tal'oth, I survived in the Vulcan desert for four months with a ritual blade as my only possession. After that, Starfleet training exercises seemed less of a challenge.
CHAKOTAY: I guess so.
TUVOK: This weapon is complete. When Mister Neelix returns with a second capacitor, I'll improvise another.
(Next day.)
EMH: Lieutenant, I haven't seen any sign of a portal. Frankly, I'm getting tired of this.
TORRES: Holograms don't get tired. Keep looking.
JARLETH: We've been trying to get out of here for years. The closest I ever came was finding the portal between our two environments. I don't mean to be pessimistic, but I don't think there is a way out.
JANEWAY: There must be. We just have to keep looking.
JARLETH: Well, I know it's too early for you to accept this, but life here isn't so bad. Once we stopped trying to escape, we actually began enjoying ourselves.
TORRES: Captain, we've found something.
EMH: It's directly in front of me.
JANEWAY: Here?
EMH: Yes. Right there.
(Jarleth points a little gizmo at it, and a door opens.)
EMH: Well, if my scanning services are no longer required, I'll return to my medical duties.

[Access tunnel]

(They enter a curved corridor.)
JANEWAY: We can cover more ground if we split up. Tuvok and I will take this direction. You three go that way. We'll meet back here in twenty minutes.
JARLETH: I don't think we're supposed to be in here.
PARIS: B'Elanna, over here.
(They open the door to a mountainous rain forest.)
TORRES: There's another one.
(A building on stilts, on a rocky shore.)
TORRES: Self-contained biospheres, every one of them different.

[Control room]

(Meanwhile, going the other way around.)
JANEWAY: It's definitely some kind of control station. I can bring up information, but I can't understand what it says.
TUVOK: If the Nyrians downloaded Voyager's cultural database, you may be able to tap into the translation algorithm.
(Accessing. Lang: English.)
JANEWAY: Oh, much better. The Federation habitat, population one hundred and forty eight. At least they haven't detected that anyone's missing.
(Habitat: Tanatuva. Habitat: Bourget.)
JANEWAY: Here's another environment, and another.
(Habitat: Zooabud.)
JANEWAY: How many are there?
TUVOK: Captain, there's data here for ninety four different environments.
JANEWAY: They're holding thousands of prisoners. There's got to be something that'll tell us what the layout of this place is. Authorised access only.
TUVOK: I'll try to bypass their security codes.
JANEWAY: Good, I'm getting something. Incredible. Tuvok, we're on a ship.
TUVOK: We should attempt to locate the bridge.
JANEWAY: Well if there is one, I can't find it. There seems to be a more extensive control centre four decks above us. Maybe I can access it from here. More security lock-outs.
TUVOK: We may need to disable the entire security sub-routine.
(An alarm sounds. They make their way back.)

[Bridge]

TALEEN [on viewscreen]: There's been an unauthorised access at one of the terminals. Some of the lifeforms have escaped their habitat.
DAMMAR: Find them and put them back.
TALEEN [on viewscreen]: We are attempting to do that now. However, if they resist, stronger measures may become necessary.
DAMMAR: If they leave you no other alternative, you have the authorisation to use force.
(Transmission ends.)
DAMMAR: How soon can we go to warp? I want to get back there.
RISLAN: Just a few minutes.

[Access tunnel]

JARLETH: Let's go back.
PARIS: No, we've got to find the Captain and Tuvok. They might need our help.
JARLETH: We have to help ourselves. This is our chance to get back into our own environments.
TORRES: If you want to go, then go. We're not leaving them behind.
(Paris and Torres leave.)
NYRIAN GUARD: Don't move.
JARLETH: I surrender. I'm sorry. It wasn't my idea. They made me come along. They, er, went around that corner.
NYRIAN GUARD: Follow them.

[Control room]

(In another control room, Tuvok neck-pinches a Nyrian.)
TUVOK: He just activated a translocator control. One lifeform was sent from an access tunnel to the biosphere adjacent to ours.
JANEWAY: That must have been Jarleth. This translocator is what the Nyrians used to get on our ship.
TUVOK: Then we should be able to use the same method to return to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Assuming we can figure out how to use it.

[Bridge]

RISLAN: We're getting an incoming message from the biosphere vessel. Audio only.
TALEEN [OC]: Taleen to Dammar. Some of the lifeforms have accessed the control system. They have weapons. We need reinforcements.
DAMMAR: We're on our way to you now. Increase speed to maximum velocity. Take us close enough to translocate our entire security force at once.
RISLAN: Yes, sir.

[Access tunnel]

PARIS: Something's wrong with the phaser.
TORRES: Power cells probably running out. These aren't exactly Starfleet issue.
PARIS: We've got to get out of these tunnels. There must be somewhere to hide in one of these habitats.
TORRES: Tom, I think I've found one. Here is it.
(An arctic snowstorm hits them.)
TORRES: Remember how we had to warm up the ship for the Nyrians?
PARIS: This is the last place they'd want to follow us.
TALEEN: Stop!
(Torres and Paris go inside.)
TALEEN: Follow them. That's an order.

[Control room]

TUVOK: This translocator has an extremely long range. Over ten light years.
JANEWAY: Great distances must limit it's capacity. That's why the Nyrians could only send one person to Voyager at a time and bring one of us here.
TUVOK: Their method has the added advantage of appearing innocent, at least in the beginning.
JANEWAY: I can't find the command pathways to get the system operative, and I don't imagine we have much longer before they find us.

[Argala Habitat]

TORRES: Maybe coming in here wasn't such a good idea.
PARIS: Let's hope it's worse for them than it is for us.
TORRES: Careful. That phaser's just about dead.
(Paris fires at the rocks above the Nyrian's heads, and they retreat.)
TORRES: They can't last much longer. We've just got to stay one step ahead of them.
PARIS: We don't want to get too far away from the portal. Maybe we should find a place to hide.
TORRES: Let me see the phaser. My hands are completely numb.
PARIS: Here. I would have thought all that hot Klingon blood would have kept you warm.
(Paris blows on her hands.)
TORRES: Shows how much you know about Klingons. They have much less tolerance for the cold than humans do.
PARIS: Really? I thought that was Cardassians.
TORRES: No, they just complain about it more.
PARIS: Better?
TORRES: I think that'll amplify the power cell enough for one more shot.
(A Nyrian finds them, then passes out from the cold. A second one comes up behind them.)
PARIS: B'Elanna!
(Torres shoots the Nyrian.)
PARIS: Nice shot. Now let's get out of here before we freeze to death.

[Control room]

JANEWAY: I've got the basic operation down, but I can't quite figure out how to lock on to a target. Can you access anything that might function like our targeting scanners?
TUVOK: There are biosensors contained within the monitoring programs of each habitat. Perhaps
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I'm detecting human lifeforms in one of the environments. The Argala habitat.
JANEWAY: Tom and B'Elanna.
TUVOK: Possibly. They may have taken refuge there to hide from the Nyrians.
JANEWAY: Doesn't look very inviting, does it.
TUVOK: The temperature is minus twenty degrees Celsius.
JANEWAY: They can't last long in that. We've got to get them out.
TUVOK: Captain, there's a ship approaching at high warp. It's Voyager.
JANEWAY: If the Nyrians are bringing in reinforcements, we're in trouble. Keep working on those bioscanners.

[Argala Habitat]

TORRES: I didn't think we were this far from the portal. I don't think I can go any farther.
PARIS: You have to keep moving.
TORRES: Oh, I'm so sleepy.
PARIS: No, B'Elanna, get up.
TORRES: No, you go on. I'm just going to rest here.
PARIS: If you do that, you'll die.
TORRES: No, I'll be fine. I just have to close my eyes for a minute.
PARIS: Oh no, I am not going to let you do this. On your feet now, Torres. That's an order.
TORRES: You can't give me orders. We're the same rank.
PARIS: I am a bridge officer, and I have seniority.
TORRES: Oh yeah, by two days!
PARIS: On your feet, now! Come on, you've been wanting to take a swing at me for days. Now's your chance.
TORRES: You're just trying to get me moving.
PARIS: You will keep moving. Or do I have to throw you over my shoulder and carry you out?
TORRES: Don't even try it.
(Torres and Paris get translocated back to the Federation habitat. Which means two other people get switched...)
DAMMAR: Where are we?
RISLAN: The Argala habitat, sir.
DAMMAR: Get us out of here. Where's the portal?
(Janeway translocates in.)
DAMMAR: You did this!
JANEWAY: I've taken control of your translocation system. My tactical officer is standing by, waiting for my next order.
DAMMAR: And, and what would that be?
JANEWAY: That depends on you. Surrender my ship and release all the prisoners here.
DAMMAR: Unacceptable.
JANEWAY: All right. You can stay where you are and greet your fellow crewmembers as we translocate them here to join you.
RISLAN: And if we do surrender?
JANEWAY: We'll find you a nice warm habitat where you'll be comfortable while we contact the native worlds of your prisoners and arrange for their return. And once we've disabled your translocator, you'll be free to go. I'm sorry you don't wish to be reasonable. Mister Tuvok, get me out of here and prepare to
DAMMAR: No! Wait!

Captain's log, stardate 50929.6. The Nyrians have surrendered Voyager, and my crew is safely back on board. The former prisoners on the habitat vessel have contacted their native worlds, and are waiting to be taken home.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]

(Torres sits on a recliner next to Paris.)
TORRES: Nice day.
PARIS: Beautiful.
TORRES: Things were pretty chilly there for a while.
PARIS: I guess they were.
TORRES: It feels good to be warm again.
PARIS: Yeah, it sure does.


S3 E25
Worst Case Scenario
Stardate: 50971.5
Original Airdate: May 7, 1997

[Corridor]
(Torres is in a yellow-shouldered uniform, and looking rather pleased with herself.)
CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
TORRES: The bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
TORRES: Not at all.
CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
TORRES: Not bad, I guess.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
TORRES: No more than usual.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending seventy years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache. I get the impression a lot of the crew agrees with me. Maquis and Starfleet.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Bridge. So, what do you think?
TORRES: About what?
CHAKOTAY: About what I've been saying. That a lot of the crew aren't too happy with our Chief of Security. And for that matter, I don't think Captain Janeway's winning any popularity contests either. Don't you agree?
TORRES: Why do I get the feeling that you're testing me?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say I'm interested in your opinion.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: You're a good officer. I like you. And I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.
TORRES: Computer, halt turbolift. Look, what's this all about?
CHAKOTAY: There're going to be some changes around here. All of the Maquis are in line, and about twenty five of the Starfleet crew are with us.
TORRES: Are you saying there's going to be a mutiny?
CHAKOTAY: And when the shooting starts, I'm going to need to know which side you're on.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry, Captain, I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
PARIS [OC]: Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
PARIS [OC]: The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
JANEWAY: On my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be less friendly than they seem?
TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for the Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand, are still adapting to your duties as First Officer. Under the circumstances, I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in your effort to justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you in twenty four hours.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down those transporters and start that diagnostic we've been putting off.
KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the Commander tells you.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors, Ensign?
(Torres is at Mission Ops 2.)
TORRES: I'm working on it, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
(Two security men enter by the door next to Tuvok's station. Chakotay takes a PADD from one of them.)
CHAKOTAY: Wait here.
TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
TUVOK: Sir, Captain Janeway's shuttle has gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
TUVOK: Sir?
(Chakotay shoots Tuvok. One security guard shoots the helmsman, the other just misses Kim.)
KIM: Red alert! Security to the Bridge!
CHAKOTAY: You're wasting your time, Harry. All my teams have taken control of Security, Engineering and all key systems.
KIM: You'll never get away with this. People will fight back.
CHAKOTAY: That's going to be a little difficult. All your off-duty Starfleet friends have been locked down in quarters.
(Kim is about to shoot Chakotay, but Ensign Torres gets him first.)
CHAKOTAY: I guess you've made your choice.
JONAS [OC]: Jonas to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
JONAS [OC]: They're putting up a fight on deck two. We could use some help.
CHAKOTAY: Carlson, O'Donnell, get these people to the brig. Ayala, take the conn and move us out of com range of Janeway's shuttle. You're with me.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Deck two. Thanks for watching my back in there.
TORRES: Right.
CHAKOTAY: Are you okay?
TORRES: To tell you the truth, shooting Harry got me a little rattled.
CHAKOTAY: He's only stunned. We're not going to kill anybody today, unless it's absolutely necessary. Just stay close.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Stay low.
TORRES: They've got us pinned down.
CHAKOTAY: We'll just have to shoot our way past them. Ready?
(They shoot down the guards, one is taken out by a Bajoran woman with a phaser rifle.)
TORRES: Seska!
SESKA: It's just like old times, isn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks for the help.
SESKA: We've got to get moving. Some of Janeway's people are trying to set up a command centre in the mess hall.

[Mess hall]

(The Maquis blast their way in.)
SESKA: I wouldn't do that if I were you. This phaser's set on wide beam. I could take you all in one shot.
CHAKOTAY: Everybody, drop your weapons.
NEELIX: You heard the man. Drop your weapons. Don't look so surprised, Commander. I know a winner when I see one. I'm with you.
SESKA: Do you want me to shoot him?
CHAKOTAY: We're still going to need a cook. Chakotay to Engineering. What's your status?
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Transporter rooms one and two, status.
CREWMAN [OC]: Transporter room one is under control.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Transporter room two is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Shuttlebay, status.
CREWMAN [OC]: Shuttlebay is secured, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take care of the prisoners here. You two get some help and start rounding up the personnel that are still locked down in quarters. Bring them to Cargo Bay one.
SESKA: We did it.
CHAKOTAY: Just like old times.

[Corridor]

SESKA: You did a good job today.
TORRES: Thanks.
SESKA: Just make sure you keep it up.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
SESKA: It means I'm not as easy to win over as Chakotay. Come on! Let's go.
(They take a man from his quarters at gunpoint.)
SESKA: Wait here.

[Kes's quarters]

(Kes is back to short hair and a short skirt from her recent long hair and catsuits.)
KES: Seska, what's going on?
SESKA: Move it.
KES: Why are we being treated like prisoners?
SESKA: No talking.

[Cargo bay]

SESKA: Over there, with the rest of them.
KES: What are you going to do with us?
SESKA: I said, no talking!
TORRES: Hey, hey, hey. Take it easy.
SESKA: It told you it was a mistake letting Starfleet people in on this.
CHAKOTAY: Now is not the time, Seska. Take a good look around you. You're under armed guard. You may also notice that your senior officers aren't here. They're in the brig. They'll be put off the ship at the first habitable planet we come to. All except Janeway and Paris, who will arrive at their rendezvous coordinates to find that Voyager's not there. In short, I've taken control of the ship. I don't blame any of you for the mistakes of your leaders, so I'm giving you a choice. You can be put off the ship with your superiors or you can do what Neelix and some of your other crew members have already done and join me. If you do, you'll be part of a crew that's going to do whatever it takes to get us home as fast as possible. Under my command, we won't let almighty Federation principles get in the way of opportunities the way Janeway did when she destroyed the array that could have gotten us home. And we won't be wasting precious time stopping to investigate every insignificant anomaly that we come across. What we will do is use any means necessary to acquire technology that can shorten our journey. To hell with Starfleet regulations. You have fifteen minutes to make up your minds.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what's going on here?
TORRES: Computer, freeze programme. Are you in the habit of just walking in on people's private holodeck time?
PARIS: Well, it's not as if I caught you dancing the rumba with a naked Bolian. We had a lunch date, remember?
TORRES: Is it lunch time already? I must have lost track of the time.
PARIS: Well, I expected to find you shooting pool at Sandrine's, not hanging out with Seska. What sort of programme is this anyway?
TORRES: It's really something. I was doing a routine purge of the database, you know, taking out old files that were taking up space, and I found this holonovel. It's a kind of 'what if' story, all about a Maquis mutiny. It's completely compelling and believable. I guess it's because it's all about us.
PARIS: Who wrote it?
TORRES: Now, that is the big mystery. Whoever the author is has gone to a lot of trouble to keep his identity a secret. It's been encrypted.
PARIS: Why do you suppose someone would try so hard to be anonymous?
TORRES: Well, think about it. Whoever plays this programme takes on the role of a Starfleet security officer who gets approached by Chakotay to help the Maquis take over the ship. I mean, it's pretty inflammatory.
PARIS: You think we should tell the Captain?
TORRES: Probably.
PARIS: It would be pretty hard for us to give her a full report if we don't know how the story ends.
TORRES: Excellent point.
PARIS: Great. Can you reset it for me?
TORRES: You? I was just getting to the good part.
PARIS: Oh, come on, B'Elanna. Be a sport. I've got to be back on duty in less than an hour. Besides, isn't half the fun of a holonovel having someone to talk it over with?
TORRES: All right. You owe me one.

[Holographic Corridor]

(Paris is now the security Ensign.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
PARIS: The bridge.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
PARIS: I was kind of hoping you would.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
PARIS: Couldn't be better.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
PARIS: Oh, doesn't he always?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending seventy years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache.
PARIS: Not to mention an upset stomach.

[Holographic Turbolift]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Bridge.
PARIS: I hear you're planning a mutiny.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Computer, halt turbolift. Who told you that?
PARIS: Let's just say there are rumours.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Yeah, well, don't believe everything you hear.
PARIS: Of course not. I just wanted you to know that whatever happens, I'm with you.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Computer, resume turbolift.
PARIS: I'm serious. Just tell me what you want me to do.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: All right, Ensign, here it is. As soon as the Captain leaves to meet the Rukani, I want you to put all crew quarters on lock-down. I'll ask you if you've finished upgrading the internal sensors. If you say yes, I'll know we're ready to go.
PARIS: I understand.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'm watching you. No tricks.

[Holographic Bridge]

HOLO-TUVOK: We are entering the Rukani sector, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Inform the Captain.
HOLO-TUVOK: Aye, sir.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry, Captain. I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
HOLO-JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
HOLO-PARIS [OC]: Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
HOLO-PARIS [OC]: The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
HOLO-JANEWAY: On my way.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be less friendly than they seem?
HOLO-TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for the Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand, are still adapting to your duties as First Officer. Under the circumstances, I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in your effort to justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
HOLO-JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you in twenty four hours.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
HOLO-TUVOK: Aye, sir.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down the transporters and start that diagnostic we've been putting off.
HOLO-KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
HOLO-TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the Commander tells you.
HOLO-KIM: Aye, sir.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors?
PARIS: Yes, sir.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
(Carlson and O'Donnell enter.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Wait here.
HOLO-TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
HOLO-TUVOK: The Captain's shuttle has gone to warp.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
HOLO-TUVOK: Sir?
PARIS: Tuvok, get down!
(Too late. Chakotay shoots Tuvok. Paris jumps one of the guards, Kim shoots the other. Chakotay shoots Kim. Ayala pulls Paris off the guard.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I guess you've made your choice.
PARIS: It's not over yet, Chakotay.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Take them all to the brig.

[Holographic Brig]

PARIS: Sir, we have to do something.
HOLO-TUVOK: What did you have in mind, Ensign?
PARIS: Escape. Retake the ship.
HOLO-TUVOK: We will indeed attempt to do so when the time is right.
PARIS: What about trying it now?
HOLO-TUVOK: Such a foolhardy proposal suggests a lack of proper training. Need I remind you that we are confined behind an electrostatic forcefield?
PARIS: We can't just sit here and do nothing.
HOLO-TUVOK: We are hardly doing nothing. We are observing the enemy, watching for any discernible patterns in their procedures, looking for any weakness in their defences.
PARIS: How long is this observing business going to take? It's been over an hour already. I'm getting bored.
HOLO-TUVOK: I am not concerned with your amusement, Ensign. We are in a crisis situation, and we will follow procedure. And procedure dictates that we wait for the right opportunity to attempt an escape, whether it takes an hour or a week.
PARIS: A week? Who wrote this stuff?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Hold Kim and Tuvok here. Bring the rest of them to Cargo bay one.
PARIS: Enjoy the wait.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY: And we won't be wasting precious time stopping to investigate every insignificant anomaly we come across. What we will do is use any means necessary to acquire technology that can shorten our journey. To hell with Starfleet regulations. You have fifteen minutes to make up your minds.
PARIS: I don't need fifteen minutes. I'm with you right now.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: So by the time I got around to joining Chakotay's little band of rebels
TORRES: Ah ha.
PARIS: He was so suspicious of my motives that he assigned me to lubricate the warp plasma manifolds.
TORRES: You should have tried going along with the mutiny from the beginning. It's much more fun.
PARIS: Oh, believe me, next time I will.
NEELIX: I couldn't help overhearing. You two are talking about the new holonovel. I tried sending an encoded message to Captain Janeway's shuttle to warn her about the mutiny. But Chakotay caught me, phasered me, and the programme reset. Next time, I'm going to pretend to go along with the conspirators and then stage a counterstrike.
PARIS: I thought we were going to keep this our little secret.
TORRES: Don't look at me. I didn't tell him.
NEELIX: I heard about it from the Doctor.
PARIS: The Doctor?
TORRES: I may have let it slip while I was running his weekly diagnostic.
PARIS: Oh, great. Who else knows about it?
NEELIX: Don't worry about me. My lips are sealed.
KIM: So what's this Ayala tells me about a new holonovel?
PARIS: Get in line, Harry.

Lieutenant Paris's personal log: Stardate 50953.4. I've decided to take B'Elanna's advice and replay the holonovel, this time as a full-fledged member of Chakotay's team of mutineers. I hope it turns out better than before.

[Holographic Bridge]

(The Maquis are back in their original leather clothes.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Where the hell are those warp engines?
HOLO-SESKA: They're still offline. We can't seem to get the dilithium matrix reinitialised.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: It's been two days.
HOLO-SESKA: Don't worry. B'Elanna's on it.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Run a full security sweep. Something tells me there's more to this engine problem than a faulty dilithium matrix.
PARIS: Do you think we've got a saboteur on board?
HOLO-SESKA: There's a ship approaching, bearing two one six mark three three. It's Janeway's shuttle.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Open a channel. Hello, Kathryn. How did it go with the Rukani?
HOLO-JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: You're out of uniform, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: There have been a few changes since you've been gone.
HOLO-JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: So I've heard. You think I don't have any friends left on Voyager?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Apparently you do. But I'll find them.
HOLO-JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: And then what? Will you kill them or just put them off the ship?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Nobody has to die here today.
HOLO-JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I thought you were a man of your word, Chakotay. I guess I was mistaken.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry it had to come to this. But the crew believes I can get them home faster than you can.
HOLO-PARIS [on viewscreen]: That's going to be a little difficult without warp engines, isn't it?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Our warp drive may be temporarily offline, but our weapons systems are fully operational.
PARIS: They're powering phasers.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, don't try to be a hero. I've been reasonable so far. I'll allow you to keep the shuttle. I'll even transport you some extra provisions. But if you don't stand down, I will destroy your shuttle.
HOLO-JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: You've just threatened the wrong woman, Chakotay.
(Transmission ends. The shuttle fires on Voyager.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: What does she think she's going to accomplish?
HOLO-SESKA: We can obliterate them in one shot.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Not till I give the order. Reopen a channel.
PARIS: I don't know how, but they've disabled our shields. We're completely vulnerable.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Target their warp core and fire.
HOLO-SESKA: I always said Janeway was a fool.
COMPUTER: Intruder alert on deck eight.
PARIS: It's Paris and Janeway.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Janeway's no fool. She tricked us into destroying her shuttle, then transported over while the shields were down.
HOLO-SESKA: She's trying to free the prisoners.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You've got the bridge. You're with me.

[Holographic Brig]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Get away from that panel!
(Chakotay shoots Janeway. Holo-Paris is behind Paris.)
HOLO-PARIS: Drop it.
(The programme ends.)

[Holodeck]

PARIS: Computer, resume programme.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.
PARIS: Well, start it up again, right where it left off.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
PARIS: Why not?
COMPUTER: Additional narrative parameters have not been programmed.
PARIS: Are you saying there's no more story?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
PARIS: This is someone's idea of a practical joke, right?
COMPUTER: Please rephrase the question.
(Later, the Chief Engineer is trying to solve the problem.)
TORRES: There. I've bypassed the security override. Try it now.
PARIS: Computer, identify the author of holographic programme entitled Insurrection Alpha.
COMPUTER: That information is classified.
TORRES: I've tried every decryption protocol I can think of. Whoever wrote this is good.
PARIS: Not to mention sadistic. I can't believe we've been left hanging like this.
(Neelix enters.)
NEELIX: Any luck? Me neither. I've discreetly questioned everybody I thought I could trust. Either nobody knows or nobody's talking.
PARIS: Remember the good old days when it was impossible to keep a secret on a ship this small?

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Well, if that takes care of our official agenda, there's another matter I'd like to discuss. Commander Chakotay informs me there's a new holonovel that's become quite popular among the crew.
CHAKOTAY: It's been accessed forty seven times by thirty three different crew members.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose anyone here is familiar with what we're talking about?
TORRES: Er, actually, er, Captain, I'm the one who found it on the auxiliary database.
PARIS: I've been running it too.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody else?
JANEWAY: I understand that the author of this little opus has chosen to remain anonymous. Perhaps because of the controversial nature of the story, which depicts Commander Chakotay as the leader of a Maquis mutiny. Well, now that the cat's out of the bag, I want each of you to talk to your staff and find out who our anonymous author is.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary, Captain. I am the author of the programme in question.
PARIS: You, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: I never knew you had literary aspirations.
NEELIX: Not to mention talent. What a story!
TUVOK: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. The programme is not a holonovel. It is a tactical training scenario. When you first invited the Maquis to join our crew, I believed that mutiny was a very real possibility. With that in mind, I began to write a training programme for junior security officers to prepare them for such an eventuality.
PARIS: But you never finished it?
TUVOK: No. As the two crews began to work together, I concluded that the threat of an insurrection was increasingly unlikely. I realised the programme itself might exacerbate the very conflict I sought to avoid. Therefore, I deleted the scenario, or so I believed.
JANEWAY: Apparently you didn't account for B'Elanna's exceptional computer skills.
TUVOK: Nor her somewhat excessive curiosity. I apologise for my carelessness, Captain.
PARIS: Forget your carelessness. What you should be apologising for is leaving us all hanging by a thread. You've got to finish the story.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Mister Paris. The programme has the potential to incite animosity among the crew and must be permanently deleted. I have no doubt the captain concurs.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, Mister Tuvok, loosen up. You may have intended this programme to be a tactical training tool, but it looks to me like it's turned into a bit of harmless fun.
TUVOK: As the Captain of this ship, surely you
JANEWAY: I'm more than just a Captain. I'm the leader of a community, and communities need entertainment, culture, creative outlets. Since we're not exactly privy to every new piece of music or holonovel that's written back home, I think it's only natural that we should start creating our own.
CHAKOTAY: Besides, Tuvok, if the crew doesn't get an ending, you may have a real mutiny on your hands.
PARIS: If Tuvok doesn't want to finish the story, I volunteer.
TORRES: Oh?
PARIS: Well, I've always wanted to write a holonovel. I think I could make it pretty exciting.
JANEWAY: Good. Then it's settled. I for one can't wait to see if Captain Janeway manages to outwit the conspirators.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: Well, if it isn't Mister Anonymous. Come to check up on your replacement?
TUVOK: Since the captain insists on allowing you to proceed with this frivolous exercise, I thought you might benefit from the original probability studies I conducted before beginning the scenario.
PARIS: Well, thanks, Tuvok, but I don't need any probability studies. I'm just sort of making it up as I go along.
TUVOK: Indeed. I'd be curious to know what you've made up thus far.
PARIS: Well, I was thinking, Paris and Janeway retake the ship, and then she decides to execute all the conspirators.
TUVOK: That is an entirely implausible plot development. Captain Janeway would never behave in such an inhumane manner.
PARIS: This isn't real life, Tuvok. It's fiction. Don't get so caught up in logic.
TUVOK: Logic is an integral part of narrative structure. According to the Dictates of Poetics by T'hain of Vulcan, a character's actions must flow inexorably from his or her established traits.
PARIS: Well, I don't know anything about T'hain, but I do know what makes an interesting story, and that's unexpected plot twists.
TUVOK: If you think I will allow you to turn this programme into a parody, you are sorely mistaken.
PARIS: Are you saying that you're going to finish it yourself?
TORRES: Artistic differences?
TUVOK: I would hardly call Mister Paris's ideas artistic.
PARIS: Apparently, my instincts don't comply with the Vulcan Dictates of Poetics.
TORRES: Well, I've got a couple of suggestions that might help. Now, up until now the story's been nothing but action, which is fine. But what it needs is a little heart, a little emotion.
TUVOK: We are not writing a romance novel, Lieutenant.
PARIS: We?
TUVOK: I've decided that your efforts would benefit from my collaboration.
PARIS: Oh, really?
TORRES: Listen, I don't care which one of you is writing this thing. All I'm saying is that there is room in every good story for a little bit of passion.
PARIS: You know, maybe you're on to something. I could add a steamy love scene between the Starfleet conn officer and the Maquis engineer.
TORRES: Oh, that's realistic.
NEELIX: How about a fresh pot of coffee to keep those creative juices flowing, eh?
PARIS: Thanks, Neelix.
NEELIX: While I'm here.
PARIS: Let me guess. You have a suggestion to make.
NEELIX: Of course not. I would never presume to interfere in the creative process. It's more of a comment, really, about the Neelix character.
TUVOK: How surprising.
JANEWAY: He would never betray the Captain the way he does in that story. No offence, Mister Vulcan, but I don't think you understand my character very well.
PARIS: Tuvok, did you forget to follow the Dictates of Poetics?
TUVOK: Perhaps we should find someplace quieter to work.
PARIS: Now, that's the first intelligent suggestion I've heard all evening.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: I believe our first step should be to create a carefully constructed outline of the remaining chapters.
PARIS: I told you, Tuvok. I'm just making it up as I go.
TUVOK: We cannot proceed without a carefully constructed outline.
PARIS: There you go with that we stuff again. I don't remember agreeing to let you help me.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that it was I who first began the scenario?
PARIS: And you think I'm compromising your creative vision?
TUVOK: In so many words, yes. And it is my duty to ensure that ship security is not compromised by your creative vision.
PARIS: You had your chance to finish the story, and you wanted to delete it.
TUVOK: True, but since that is no longer an option, I am now exercising my prerogative as the original author.
PARIS: Look, Tuvok, for the last time, I don't need any help.

[Holodeck]

EMH: Ah, there you are. I have several brilliant ideas for upcoming chapters of your holonovel, as well as a list of revisions and dialogue changes that I believe will improve the earlier installments.
PARIS: I don't believe this.
EMH: No thanks are necessary. In addition, I'm prepared to offer my expertise in the creation of holographic mise-en-scene.
TUVOK: Computer, override the EMH program's autonomous controls and transfer him back to Sickbay.
EMH: Now, wait just a min
(The EMH disappears.)
PARIS: Thanks, Tuvok. Now that I think about it, I'll take it from here.
TUVOK: You may find that difficult, since I am the only one who can make additions to the programme.
PARIS: All right, Tuvok. You win. We'll finish the story together.
TUVOK: That is a very rational decision, Mister Paris. Computer, reinitiate the holographic programme entitled Insurrection Alpha, security clearance Tuvok four seven seven four.
COMPUTER: The programme has been reinitiated.
PARIS: The first thing we're going to change is that title.
TUVOK: Reformat the holo-matrix for the addition of new interactive algorithms.
COMPUTER: The holo-matrix has been formatted.
TUVOK: Reopen the narrative parameters file.
(The holodeck glitches.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we just lost power in both transporter rooms. The com went down, and the holodeck systems are completely scrambled.

[Holographic Brig]

PARIS: What are we doing in the brig?
TUVOK: I have no idea. We haven't given the computer instructions to create a location yet.
HOLO-SESKA: Hello, Tuvok. I've been expecting you. If you can see me, you've obviously reopened the narrative parameters file of the tactical scenario you've been working on.
TUVOK: How do you know that? You're a hologram.
HOLO-SESKA: That's right. A holographic representation of Seska, one of the Maquis shipmates you betrayed. I would have thought all that time you spent spying on us might have given you a little more insight into the Maquis, but after looking over what you've already written, I can see you need a little help. So I've created this representation of myself, to guide you through the rest of the programme.
TUVOK: There is no more programme.
HOLO-SESKA: There is now. I finished writing it for you, with a few revisions of my own.
PARIS: Revisions?
HOLO-SESKA: To start with, the holodeck is now sealed. Your friends will find it very difficult to get you out of here. And the safety protocols are off, which means if I shoot you, and I am going to shoot you, you'll die. But not just yet. You've got ten seconds to run. Nine, eight
TUVOK: Computer, end programme.
HOLO-SESKA: Seven, six, five
TUVOK: Holodeck one to Bridge. Emergency transport.
HOLO-SESKA: Oh, did I forget to tell you? The moment you restarted the programme, the com system went down. Four, three
PARIS: I guess we'd better do what she says.
HOLO-SESKA: Two, one.

[Holographic Corridor]

PARIS: You should never have crossed her, Tuvok.
TUVOK: She has been dead for over a year now. There would have been no way to predict this turn of events.
PARIS: I guess we should have known Seska wouldn't let a little thing like death stop her from getting even.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Tuvok. Tom. In here.
PARIS: Captain?

[Holographic Transporter Room]

HOLO-JANEWAY: We're going to have to transport to the cargo bay to free the rest of the prisoners. It's safer than trying to make it on foot.
PARIS: She's a hologram too?
TUVOK: Apparently she believes we're here to help her retake the ship from the mutineers.
PARIS: I say we play along. We could use all the help we can get against Seska.
TUVOK: You're forgetting it was Seska who rewrote the scenario. For all we know, she's programmed Captain Janeway to betray us.
PARIS: I suppose you have a better idea?
TUVOK: The safest course of action is to avoid participation of any kind. Eventually, the real Captain will discover our predicament and shut down the programme from the outside.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Let's move!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Hold it right there!
HOLO-JANEWAY: Back off!
HOLO-SESKA: Or what? You'll shoot us? Go right ahead.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Whatever you say.
(Janeway fires her phaser rifle, but it backfires and kills her.)
HOLO-SESKA: Poor Kathryn. I guess nobody told her the phaser rifles from storage locker three have been malfunctioning.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're an incredible woman, Seska.
(Holo-Chakotay kisses Seska.)
HOLO-SESKA: You see who's in charge now, don't you? So if I were you, I'd get moving again. The programme's not over.
TUVOK: We have no intention of participating in this exercise.
HOLO-SESKA: You don't want to end up like your Captain, do you?
PARIS: You programmed all this. The malfunctioning phaser, the version of Chakotay who's attracted to you. None of it's real.
HOLO-SESKA: You hear that? He thinks this is a game. Show him he's wrong.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I've been waiting a long time for this.
(Holo-Chakotay shoots Paris in the arm.)
HOLO-SESKA: Next time, you'll believe me when I tell you the safety protocols are off. Now, you've got five seconds to start running again, or you'll end up with more than a flesh wound.

[Holographic Corridor]

PARIS: So much for not playing along with Seska's programme.
TUVOK: Are you able to continue?
PARIS: I'll keep up. The question is, where are we going?
TUVOK: I have an idea.

[Holographic Sickbay]

PARIS: What's the point? This isn't the real Sickbay.
TUVOK: I may be able to use some of this holographic equipment to treat your wound. Besides, it's as good a place as any to hide from Seska.
HOLO-EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PARIS: No emergency, Doc. I'm fine.
HOLO-EMH: Nonsense. You have second-degree phaser burns. Please have a seat on biobed one.
PARIS: That's all right, Doc. I'm telling you, I feel fine.
HOLO-EMH: You require treatment. Twenty cc's nitric acid. A little proverbial salt in the wound.
(Paris screams in pain. Tuvok disarms the EMH, who then hits him and starts to strangle him.)
HOLO-EMH: You're looking well.
TUVOK: Go!
PARIS: I'm not going to leave you!
(Paris tries to hit the EMH, but his hand passes through his head.)
HOLO-EMH: It was a pleasure treating you. Don't hesitate to call again.
(The Holo-EMH throws them both out of his Sickbay.)

[Holographic Corridor]

TUVOK: Are you all right, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Oh, just great. Maybe we can go to the mess hall now and let the holographic Neelix burn my arm with a frying pan.
TUVOK: Your feeble attempt at wit notwithstanding, it does appear that Seska has reprogrammed the holographic crew to torture us. I suggest we avoid meeting any more of them.
HOLO-SESKA [OC]: Seska to Tuvok. I know you can hear me.
PARIS: Oh, terrific.
HOLO-SESKA [OC]: I just wanted to remind you that wherever you go, I'll find you.
PARIS: I say we try the Jefferies tubes.
TUVOK: I concur.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, you're not going to believe this, but Seska caused these cascade failures.
JANEWAY: Seska? How?
TORRES: What she lacked in loyalty she made up for in ingenuity. According to the back-up computer logs, she got into Tuvok's scenario on stardate 48671 about a month before she left the ship. She programmed it to cause all of these shutdowns the next time Tuvok reopened the narrative parameters file, which he didn't do until today.
JANEWAY: Can we get them out?
TORRES: Seska laid booby-trapped subroutines everywhere. If we try to open the holodeck doors, the power grid is rigged to explode.
KIM: And the transporters are still offline.
JANEWAY: You said the narrative parameters file is open now?
KIM: Seska's revised programme is playing out as we speak.
JANEWAY: If Seska can rewrite Tuvok, maybe I can rewrite Seska.

[Holographic Jefferies tube]

PARIS: So, Tuvok, anything in the Dictates of Poetics about how to escape from a ship full of insane holograms?
TUVOK: Your attempts at humour are hardly constructive, Mister Paris.
(He unlocks an internal hatch to reveal a plasma fire.)
TUVOK: The controls are jammed. I cannot close the hatch.
(A plasma fire extinguisher appears.)
PARIS: Tuvok!
(Paris puts out the fire.)
PARIS: Where do you suppose this came from?
TUVOK: That is an intriguing question.
PARIS: Do you think Seska's toying with us? Taking us to the brink of death again, then letting us live so she can keep torturing us?
TUVOK: I prefer a more optimistic interpretation. It is possible our shipmates outside the holodeck have learned of our predicament and have found a way to help us by making additions to the programme, such as that plasma extinguisher.
PARIS: If you want to look on the bright side, I'm certainly not going to argue with you.
(They go down a ladder.)
PARIS: If they do know what's going on, why just hand us a plasma extinguisher? Why not shut down the holo-grid, or change the scenario?
TUVOK: I would imagine Seska has made it very difficult for anyone to implement more than minor changes.
PARIS: Take a look at this.
(On Aux Systems Monitor 128 - TRYING TO HELP YOU. GO TO WEAPONS LOCKER.)
PARIS: You were right.
TUVOK: We must follow their instructions.
(But when they try to exit the Jefferies tube system.)
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Hello, boys.

[Engineering]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY [on monitor]: What do you say we go for a little walk?
JANEWAY: Where did they come from?
TORRES: Seska's programme is adding new algorithms to counteract the changes we're making.
JANEWAY: I need more access to the narrative subroutines.
TORRES: I can't get in.
JANEWAY: You'd better find a way, otherwise Tom and Tuvok aren't going to make it out of there alive. It looks like Chakotay's taking them to the holographic cargo bay.
TORRES: Torres to Kim. How are you coming

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: With those transporters?
KIM: Seska's programme has completely disabled the relay access ports.

[Engineering]

KIM [OC]: It's going to take a while to get Tom and Tuvok out of there.
JANEWAY: I guess that means I keep writing.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY: As you can see, the last of your comrades have been captured. In case anybody had any doubts, it should be obvious by now that this is no longer a Starfleet vessel.
HOLO-SESKA: Bring Paris and Tuvok over here. You and you, bring your weapons.

[Engineering]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY on monitor]: What are you doing?
HOLO-SESKA [on monitor]: What do you think I'm doing? I'm going to execute them right here.
JANEWAY: I need access to the character algorithms now!
TORRES: I'm on it.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

HOLO-SESKA: Fire on my order.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Belay that.
HOLO-SESKA: What are you doing? We planned this.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure it's necessary to kill them.
TUVOK: If I'm not mistaken, the Chakotay hologram is undergoing some sort of character change.
PARIS: Do you think they're trying to help us again?
HOLO-SESKA: These two rodents betrayed us. They deserve to die.
TUVOK: Don't listen to her, Commander. You've taken the ship. There is no need to add murder to your list of offences.
HOLO-SESKA: Quiet!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapons.

[Engineering]

TORRES: It's working.
JANEWAY: Now, if I can just keep modifying the Chakotay hologram.
HOLO-SESKA [on monitor]: You're not going to lose your nerve, are you?

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

HOLO-CHAKOTAY: We have what we want. There's no reason to kill them.
HOLO-SESKA: Prepare to fire on my order!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Seska! I'm in command of this operation.

[Engineering]

HOLO-SESKA [on monitor]: Not anymore.
(Holo-Seska kills Holo-Chakotay.)
TORRES: I don't believe it. The programme is reconfiguring the subprocessors to counter every change we make. No matter what we do, it rewrites itself so that Tom and Tuvok will die.
JANEWAY: I'm not out of ideas yet.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

HOLO-SESKA: Now, is there anyone else who wants to challenge my authority? Isn't their loyalty inspiring? Set your phasers to kill.
PARIS: Don't listen to her.
HOLO-SESKA: Fire on my order.
(Whumph!)
HOLO-SESKA: What the hell was that?
(Whumph again! Everyone falls down. Tuvok and Paris grab phasers from Maquis.)
TUVOK: Don't move, Seska.
HOLO-CREWWOMAN [OC]: Bridge to Seska. We're under attack by the Rukani.
HOLO-SESKA: The Rukani?
PARIS: The people the captain and I were visiting while you were busy taking over the ship. When we realised there was a mutiny in progress, we called them for a little assistance.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Harry, have you got transporters yet?
KIM [OC]: Still working on it, Captain.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

HOLO-SESKA: You're not getting this ship back.
TUVOK: That is a rather bold statement for someone in your position.
HOLO-SESKA: Computer, initiate sixty seconds self-destruct sequence, authorisation zeta one.
COMPUTER: This ship will self-destruct in sixty seconds.
TUVOK: Computer, belay that order, authorisation Tuvok four seven seven four.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Voiceprint not recognised.
HOLO-SESKA: If you don't hand over that phaser rifle, everyone on this ship is going to be dead in
COMPUTER: Self-destruct in forty five seconds.

[Engineering]

TORRES: I don't know how she rigged it, Captain, but when she ordered the self-destruct it initiated an overload in the holodeck power relays. The whole grid is going to blow.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

COMPUTER: Self-destruct in thirty seconds.
HOLO-SESKA: Hand over the weapon, or the ship is going to be destroyed.
TUVOK: I have set this phaser to kill. If you do not deactivate the self-destruct sequence, I will fire.
HOLO-SESKA: I'm surprised at you, Tuvok. That's not very logical. If I'm dead, who'll turn off the self-destruct?
COMPUTER: Fifteen seconds to self-destruct. Thirteen, twelve, eleven, ten, nine
(Tuvok and Paris hand over their weapons.)
HOLO-SESKA: Computer, terminate self-destruct sequence, authorisation zeta one.
COMPUTER: Self-destruct sequence has been terminated.
HOLO-SESKA: Now call off your Rukani friends.
TUVOK: Do what she says.
PARIS: Tuvok
TUVOK: That's an order, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Paris to the Rukani vessel. Thank you for your assistance, but everything's under control now.
HOLO-SESKA: It is, isn't it? I guess if you want something done right, you've got to do it yourself.
(Seska fires the phaser rifle, and kills herself.)
PARIS: Not bad.
TUVOK: Seska's not the only one who knows how to cause a phaser malfunction.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.

[Engineering]

TORRES: It's over.
KIM [OC]: Kim to Engineering. I think I can give you transporters now, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's all right, Harry. No rush.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Here's to stories with happy endings.
TUVOK: I must say, Captain. Causing the alien ship to come to our aid was a very effective plot development.
JANEWAY: Who says deus ex machina is an outdated literary device?
PARIS: I'm just glad you didn't come down with a case of writer's block.
TORRES: So, you two are going to have to come up with a new idea for your next literary collaboration.
JANEWAY: What about doing a Western?
TORRES: Or a detective story?
CHAKOTAY: I don't care what kind of story it is, as long as I'm not the bad guy this time.
NEELIX: I've got a great idea for a holonovel about a daring trader who becomes a cook on a starship. Eventually, he rises
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, if Mister Paris and I do create another work of holo-fiction, I assure you we will choose a subject much less close to home.


S3 E26
Scorpion Part 1
Stardate: 51001.2
Original Airdate: May 21st 1997

BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. Existence as you know it is over. We will add your biological and technological distinctiveness to our own. Resistance is
(Energy streaks towards the two Borg cubes. They go KaBOOM!)
[Da Vinci's Workshop]

(Captain Janeway has abandoned her Victorian gothic holonovel for something more Renaissance.)
DA VINCI: The Cardinal is a thief. I delivered two portraits of his mindless nephew more than three months ago, to be depicted in the heroic mode of an Hercules or an Achilles, so specified our contract. I complied, making that young fool of a nephew look far more heroic than nature ever intended. An act on my part far greater than anything accomplished by Hercules or Achilles! And what have I, the divine Leonardo Da Vinci received in payment?
JANEWAY: The Cardinal's eternal gratitude?
DA VINCI: Essatto! In other words, Signorina, less than nothing.
JANEWAY: All the more reason why you should accept my proposal.
DA VINCI: Money is beside the point, Signorina. Catarina, is it?
JANEWAY: Yes. I'm only asking for a corner, one bench, a place to work on my own projects, paintings, sculptures. Just being here in your company is inspiring to me.
DA VINCI: Flattery, Catarina, is also beside the point. Besides, I prefer my solitude. Scusi.
(He activates a clockwork arm.)
DA VINCI: Meraviglioso.
JANEWAY: What will you call it?
DA VINCI: The Arm of Hephaestos.
JANEWAY: The god of the forge.
DA VINCI: Every blacksmith who has ever swung a hammer will thank me for this creation.
JANEWAY: Someone once said all invention is but an extension of the body of man.
DA VINCI: Do not think that just because I have enjoyed your visit today, that I am prepared to turn my workshop into a traveller's inn.
(The clockwork arm stops.)
DA VINCI: Che cazzo.
JANEWAY: Here, let me help you.
DA VINCI: You will get your hands covered with goose grease.
JANEWAY: It's good for the skin.
(One of the wooden cogs has fractured.)
DA VINCI: Let us see if we can find his big brother. Hopefully he will be stronger.
(Janeway picks up one of his sketches, not the preliminary for the portrait of Lisa Gherardini.)
JANEWAY: This looks like a flying machine.
DA VINCI: I though that because my imagination took flight so easily, my body could do the same. I was wrong.
JANEWAY: It's this flapping approach. You designed your machine to mimic the way a bat or a sparrow flies.
DA VINCI: Yes, yes. So?
JANEWAY: So what if you based it on the hawk, instead?
DA VINCI: The hawk. A creature that glides through the air.
JANEWAY: Essatto.
DA VINCI: We will design a new machine, and you, Catarina, will help me fly it.
JANEWAY: I'll need someplace to work.
DA VINCI: A corner? One workbench?
JANEWAY: That will be fine.
DA VINCI: Ten scudi per week and you provide your own materials.
JANEWAY: Seven. And I might need to borrow a few things, on occasion.
DA VINCI: Then we have an agreement.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain, we need you in Engineering. There's something here you should see.
JANEWAY: On my way. Computer, end programme.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: What have you got?
CHAKOTAY: Some bad news. The long range probe we sent out two months ago has stopped transmitting.
TORRES: At first I thought it was a problem with the communications grid, then I cleared up the last few seconds of telemetry. Take a look at this.
(The probe was taken inside a Borg cube.)
CHAKOTAY: This could be it, Captain. Borg space.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: We don't know exactly how many vessels are out there. but their space appears to be vast. It includes thousands of solar systems, all Borg. We are no doubt entering the heart of their territory. There's no going around it, but there may be a way through it.
CHAKOTAY: Before the probe was disabled, it picked up a narrow corridor of space devoid of Borg activity. We've nicknamed it the Northwest Passage.
TORRES: Unfortunately, the passage is filled with intense gravimetric distortions. probably caused by a string of quantum singularities.
PARIS: Better to ride the rapids than face the hive.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. We're going to set a course for that corridor. and go into full Tactical Alert. Where do we stand with weapons?
TUVOK: I have reprogrammed the phaser banks to a rotating modulation, but I suspect a Borg vessel will adapt quickly.
CHAKOTAY: We can use every edge. Ensign?
KIM: I've already configured the long range sensors to scan for transwarp signatures. An early warning system.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Doctor, how are you coming on the medical front?
EMH: I've analysed every square millimetre of the Borg corpse we recovered three months ago. I'm closer to understanding how their assimilation technology works, and I might be able to create some sort of medical defence.
CHAKOTAY: Redouble your efforts. This is your top priority. Neelix, I doubt we can resupply the ship any time soon.
NEELIX: No problem, sir. I'm working on a plan to extend our food and replicator rations.
JANEWAY: We have to act fast. The Borg have captured one of our probes. They know we're out here. We'll do everything in our power to avoid a direct confrontation. but if and when we do engage the Borg, I'm confident that we'll be ready. I have faith in each and every one of you. Let's do it.

[Engineering]

(Everywhere is busy, busy.)
CREWMAN: Ensign, on the double.

[Corridor]

ENSIGN: Coming through. Open!

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I want to cut down on the time it takes to seal off the decks.
KIM: In case we take on some uninvited guests?
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. And I want to increase the magnitude of the forcefields.

[Sickbay]

EMH: These injection tubules are the first step in the Borg assimilation process. Once inside the skin, they release a series of nanoprobes into the bloodstream.
KES: Maybe we can develop some kind of protective shielding against them.
EMH: Unlikely. The tubules are capable of penetrating any known alloy or energy field. Which means our battle must be waged inside the body itself.
(Image enhancement 047.)
The first tissue to be attacked by the nanoprobes is the victim's blood. Assimilation is almost instantaneous.
KES: They take over the blood cell functions like a virus.
EMH: Which suggests to me that we should try to enhance the immune system. Create an assimilation antibody, as it were. I doubt we can actually destroy the nanoprobes, but we might be able to slow them down. Let's try a submicron dissection on the probes we've collected so far, see if we can discover the assimilation mechanism.
(Kes gets a vision of a pile of dead Borg.)
EMH: Kes, is something wrong? Kes?
KES: I saw Borg.
EMH: You've had a telepathic experience?
KES: There were bodies. Dozens of them, dead.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: How's Kes?
TUVOK: Unsettled. and uncertain. Over the past two hours, she has experienced several telepathic visions about the death of Borg and the destruction of Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Some sort of premonitions?
TUVOK: Possibly.
JANEWAY: We can't just ignore her intuition, but I see no reason to alter our plan. Tuvok, I want you to keep an eye on her.
KIM: Captain, long range sensors are picking up transwarp signatures. Five point eight light years distant, closing from behind.
CHAKOTAY: Red Alert.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
CHAKOTAY: What's happening?
PARIS: We've dropped out of warp.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering What's going on down there?

[Engineering]

TORRES: I'm not sure, Captain. Some kind of subspace turbulence is preventing us from creating a stable warp field.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Turbulence is increasing.
KIM: I'm reading two Borg vessels. Make that three. Four. No, five. Fifteen Borg vessels. Distance two point one light years and closing.
JANEWAY: Shields to maximum. Stand by all weapons.
TUVOK: They're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: My God.
(The Borg cubes rush past, and Voyager is thrown too and fro in their wake. The last one slows in front of them.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
KIM: I'm picking up a polaron beam. We're being scanned.
(A green vertical beam passes around the bridge.)
JANEWAY: Think good thoughts.
TUVOK: The last Cube has rejoined the others.
JANEWAY: Did we sustain any damage?
KIM: No. Shields held. Warp engines are coming back online. All primary systems are stable.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red Alert. Harry. maintain a long range sensor lock on that Borg armada. They seemed to be in quite a hurry, didn't they? I'd like to know what they're up to.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I'll take this near-miss as a good omen. Resume our course, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: If we needed any more evidence that we've entered Borg space, I think we just got it.
JANEWAY: I'll be in my Ready room.

[Ready room]

(Janeway is reading the Starfleet Database entry on the Borg.)
JANEWAY: Yes. come in.
CHAKOTAY: We've just completed the latest sensor sweep. So far, so good. The Northwest Passage is still clear of Borg activity.
JANEWAY: I'd like to see a tactical update.
CHAKOTAY: According to my calculations, neither of us has eaten since last night. Join me for dinner?
JANEWAY: No thanks, I'm not hungry. And I've got a lot of work to do.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
JANEWAY: I've been looking through the personal log entries of all the Starfleet Captains who encountered the Borg. I've gone over every engagement, from the moment Q flung the Enterprise into the path of that first Cube to the massacre at Wolf 359. Every battle, every skirmish. anything that might give me an insight into the mind of the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: And?
JANEWAY: In the words of Jean-Luc Picard. 'In their Collective state, the Borg are utterly without mercy, driven by one will alone: the will to conquer. They are beyond redemption, beyond reason.' And then there's Captain Amasov of the Endeavour. 'It is my opinion that the Borg are as close to pure evil as any race we've ever encountered.' What's so funny?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing.
JANEWAY: You're smiling. Obviously, I've said something amusing.
CHAKOTAY: You sounded just like Amasov.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Just now, while you were reading his log. You were using his inflections.
JANEWAY: I did not.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, you were. And before that, you were doing a pretty good Picard.
JANEWAY: Was I?
CHAKOTAY: It's nothing to be ashamed about. Echoing the Greats. Ensign Hickman in Astrophysics does a passable Janeway.
JANEWAY: If we manage to survive the next few days, I'm going to have a little chat with Ensign Hickman. Imitating the Captain, huh? Surely that violates some kind of Starfleet protocol. This day was inevitable. We all knew it. And we've all tried to prepare ourselves for the challenge ahead. But at what point is the risk too great? At what point do we come about and retreat to friendly territory? Could the crew accept living out the rest of their lives in the Delta Quadrant? I keep looking to all these Captains, my comrades in arms. But the truth is, I'm alone.
CHAKOTAY: If that moment comes. we'll face it together. And we'll make the right decision. You're not alone, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Three years ago, I didn't even know your name. Today I can't imagine a day without you.
TUVOK [OC]: Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Gentlemen.
KIM: Something strange is going on.
TUVOK: The power signatures of those Borg vessels have terminated.
CHAKOTAY: All of them?
KIM: They're dead in the water, about five point two light years from here.
JANEWAY: Cause?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: Set a course for their position. Warp two.
(Later.)
KIM: We're approaching the ships.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. On screen.
(All the cubes have been blasted to pieces.)
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
KIM: A few, but they're erratic.
TUVOK: Captain, I'm detecting two residual weapons signatures in the debris. One is Borg, the other is of unknown origin.
PARIS: Who could do this to the Borg?
(They cruise through the debris field.)
JANEWAY: Someone more powerful than the Borg? It's hard to imagine.
KIM: But they did it. Fifteen Cubes! We might've just found our ticket through Borg space. An ally.
CHAKOTAY: Let's not jump to conclusions. Scan the vicinity for other vessels.
TUVOK: There are none.
KIM: Hold on. I'm picking up some sort of bio-readings. They're coming from the outer hull of one of the Borg ships.
JANEWAY: Let's see it. Magnify, Mister Kim.
KIM: It's definitely organic, but our sensors can't penetrate its surface.
JANEWAY: Send a standard greeting.
TUVOK: No response.
CHAKOTAY: This could be a space-dwelling organism or a biological weapon.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know what kind of weapon could destroy the Borg. Can we beam it away from the ship?
KIM: I can't get a lock on it.
CHAKOTAY: Tractor beam?
TUVOK: No effect.
KIM: Whatever that thing is, it's impervious to our technology.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, are you reading an atmosphere in the Cube?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, I want you to take an away team inside. Try to get a short range scan of the biomass.
TUVOK: There are still Borg lifesigns, but they're unstable.
JANEWAY: We'll keep an open comlink and an active Transporter lock. We'll pull you out of there at the first sign of trouble.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, Harry, you're with me.

[Borg Cube]

(The metal creaks, and sparks fly. The away team are armed with phaser rifles.)
CHAKOTAY: This way.
(A pair of Borg are trying to make repairs.)
TUVOK: Lower your phasers. If we don't appear threatening, they should ignore us.
KIM: Looks like they're a little preoccupied.
CHAKOTAY: The alien bio-readings are getting stronger. We're close.
KIM: Commander.
(Kim has found Kes' pile of Borg.)
TUVOK: Curious.
CHAKOTAY: That's not the word I had in mind.
TUVOK: Those bodies are reminiscent of one of the premonitions Kes described.
KIM: Didn't Kes say we were all going to die?
CHAKOTAY: Let's keep moving.
(They reach their goal.)
CHAKOTAY: It looks like the bio-mass dissolved right through the Borg hull.
TUVOK: This Borg is attempting to assimilate it.
KIM: Doesn't look like he's having much luck.
CHAKOTAY: There's a chamber beyond this opening. Forty meters wide, high concentrations of antimatter particles. It looks like a warp propulsion system of some kind.
KIM: It's a ship?
TUVOK: Starfleet has encountered species that use organic-based vessels. The Breen, for example.
CHAKOTAY: There doesn't seem to be anybody on board. Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've found an entrance to the biomass. We think it may be a ship of some kind. Permission to go inside.
JANEWAY [OC]: Granted.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, that's a Borg distribution node. See if you can download their tactical database. It might contain a record of what happened here.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.

[Alien Bioship]

(Lots of curves in stark contrast to the Borg angles.)
CHAKOTAY: They seem to be organic conduits. They're carrying electrodynamic fluid.
TUVOK: Maybe an energy source.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. This looks like a binary matrix, but it's laced with neuropeptides. Could be their version of a computer core.
(Kim hears some clanging sounds and goes to investigate, then returns to his work.)
TUVOK: This damage was caused by a Borg disrupter beam. The wall appears to be regenerating itself. Commander!
(Tuvok discovers a Borg being absorbed by the wall. Kim finishes the download, then a Borg walks past him. More clanging for Kim to investigate. On Voyager, Kes has a vision of Kim screaming.)

[Sickbay]

(Kes drops the tray she is carrying.)
EMH: Kes?
KES: Harry's in danger.
EMH: What are you
KES: Get them out of there.
EMH: Sickbay to Janeway.

[Alien Bioship]

KIM [OC]: Commander!

[Borg Cube]

KIM: There's someone in here with us and it's not the Borg. I can't localise it but it's within twenty metres.
TUVOK: Perhaps the pilot has returned.
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to away team.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Stand by for transport. We're getting you out of there.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Good idea.
JANEWAY: Energise.
TORRES: I can't get a lock on them.
JANEWAY: What's the problem?
TORRES: It looks like bioelectric interference from whatever's coming toward them.

[Borg Cube]

CHAKOTAY: It's within seven metres. Let's get out of here!

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Narrow the confinement beam.
TORRES: No effect. I'm going to try a skeletal lock.
JANEWAY: What?
TORRES: I think I can get a clean lock on the minerals in their bone tissue. I just came up with it, but I think it might work.

[Borg Cube]

CHAKOTAY: The lifeform's five metres away and closing.
KIM: From where?
(The alien appears. It is bipedal, but walks like a bird, leaning forward. It turns and slashes Kim with its claws. He screams as they are beamed out.)

[Bridge]

TORRES: I've got them.
JANEWAY: A skeletal lock, huh? We'll have to add that one to the Transporter manual.
PARIS: Captain, the bioship is powering up, like it's charging some kind of weapon.
(Kes is given a view of the alien. She stumbles back into Janeway's arms.)
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, get us out of here. Maximum warp.
(They start to move away, then get hit by an energy weapons. The ship tumbles out of control before Paris manages to crawl back to the helm and initiate warp.)
PARIS: The alien ship is not pursuing.
JANEWAY: Kes?
KES: I could hear its thoughts. The pilot of the bioship was trying to communicate with me. They're a telepathic species. I've been aware of them for some time now. The premonitions. Captain, it's not the Borg that we should be worried about, it's them.
JANEWAY: What did it say to you?
KES: It said, the weak will perish.

Captain's log, stardate 50984.3. It's been twelve hours since our confrontation with the alien lifeform. There's no sign that we're being pursued and we've had no further encounters with the Borg. I've decided to hold our course. The Northwest Passage is only one day away, and I won't allow fear to undermine this crew's sense of purpose, even if that fear is justified.

[Sickbay]

(Kim is being absorbed, just like the Borg on the bioship.)
EMH: The infection is spreading. What began with a few stray cells contaminating the chest wound is now infusing every system in his body.
JANEWAY: It looks like he's being transformed in some way.
EMH: Not exactly. The alien cells are consuming his body from the inside out. In essence, Mister Kim is being eaten alive.
JANEWAY: He's still conscious, Doctor.
EMH: I tried giving him a sedative, but it was rejected immediately. In fact, every treatment I've tried has been neutralised within seconds. These are alien cells. Each one contains more than a hundred times the DNA of a human cell. It's the most densely coded life form I've ever seen. Even I would need years to decipher it.
JANEWAY: They have an extraordinary immune response. Anything that penetrates the cell membrane, chemical, biological, technological, it's all instantly destroyed. That's why the Borg can't assimilate them.
EMH: Resistance in this case is far from futile. Nevertheless, I believe Borg technology holds the key to saving Mister Kim.
JANEWAY: How so?
EMH: I hope to unleash an army of modified Borg nanoprobes into his bloodstream, designed to target and eradicate the infection. As you know, I've been analysing the nanoprobes. They're efficient little assimilators, one can't help but admire the workmanship. But they're no match for the alien cells. So I successfully dissected a nanoprobe and managed to access its re-coding mechanism. I reprogrammed the probe to emit the same electrochemical signatures as the alien cells. That way, the probe can do its work without being detected. Observe. The alien cells are completely oblivious to probe until it's too late. Unfortunately, I've only created a few prototypes. I'll need several days to modify enough nanoprobes to cure Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: Does Harry have several days?
EMH: I wish I knew.
JANEWAY: Fight it, Harry. That's an order.

[Engineering]

TORRES: We've analysed the Borg's tactical database. They refer to these new aliens as Species 8472.
TUVOK: Over the past five months, the Borg have been attacked by them on at least a dozen occasions. Each time, the Borg were defeated swiftly.
TORRES: The Collective has very little information about the species.
CHAKOTAY: Is anything known about where they come from?
TORRES: I'm afraid so.
CHAKOTAY: Get the Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: The Northwest Passage.
CHAKOTAY: It's clear of Borg activity for a very good reason.
TUVOK: I'm picking up one hundred and thirty three bioships. More are appearing.
JANEWAY: From where?
TUVOK: They seem to be coming from a quantum singularity.
TORRES: I'm localising the gravimetric distortions.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
(Lots of ships zooming out of a bright light.)
JANEWAY: Kes, anything?
KES: Yes. I can hear them. They're in a place where they're alone. Nothing else lives there.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of parallel universe?
KES: I don't know. I feel malevolence, a cold hatred. The weak will perish. It's an invasion. They intend on destroying everything.
JANEWAY: Tom, reverse course, maximum warp. Take us five light years out and hold position.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Maintain Red Alert. Commander.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: That moment we spoke about? It's here. Any thoughts?
CHAKOTAY: Just one. Flying into that corridor would mean certain death.
JANEWAY: Agreed. The Northwest Passage is no longer an option. So now the choice is between facing the Borg in their space, or finding ourselves a nice planet here in the Delta Quadrant and giving up on ever getting home.
CHAKOTAY: We'd be turning around, but we wouldn't be giving up. We may find another way home.
JANEWAY: I'm not ready to walk onto that bridge and tell the crew we're quitting. I can't do it, Chakotay. Not yet. There must be an alternative.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, you haven't slept in two days. Try getting some rest, and clearing your head. We're safe for the moment. We can tell the crew tomorrow, if we have to.
JANEWAY: See you in the morning.

[Da Vinci's Workshop - Night]

JANEWAY: Maestro? Leonardo?
DA VINCI: Catarina. Buona sera.
JANEWAY: Am I disturbing you?
DA VINCI: What do you see?
JANEWAY: A wall with candlelight reflecting on it. Why? What do you see?
DA VINCI: A flock of starlings, the leaves of an oak, a horse's tail, a thief with a noose around his neck. And a wall with the candlelight reflecting on it. There are times, Catarina, when I find myself transfixed by a shadow on the wall, or the splashing of water against a stone. I stare at it, the hours pass, the world around me drops away, replaced by worlds being created and destroyed by my imagination. A way to focus the mind. Sit, and tell me why you have come.
JANEWAY: There's a path before me. The only way home. And on either side, mortal enemies bent on destroying each other. If I attempt to pass through them I'll be destroyed as well. But if I turn around, that would end all hope of ever getting home. And no matter how much I try to focus my mind, I can't see an alternative.
DA VINCI: When one's imagination cannot provide an answer, one must seek a greater imagination. There are times when even I find myself kneeling in prayer. I must deliver a bronzetto to the Monks at Santa Croce. Come with me, Catarina, hey? We will awake the Abbot, visit the chapel, and appeal to God.
JANEWAY: Somehow I don't think that's going to work for me. But there is an alternative I haven't considered. What if I made an appeal to the Devil?

[Briefing room]

PARIS: An alliance with the Borg?
JANEWAY: More like an exchange. We offer them a way to defeat their new enemy and in return we get safe passage through their space. In developing a treatment for Harry, the Doctor has found a way to attack the aliens at a microscopic level.
EMH: It's still in the experimental stages, Captain. I've only made a few prototypes.
JANEWAY: Nevertheless, if we teach the Borg how to modify their own nanoprobes, they'd have a blueprint to create a weapon to fight the aliens.
EMH: In theory, yes.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, it's clear from the Borg database that they know practically nothing about Species 8472.
TORRES: That's right. The Borg gain knowledge through assimilation. What they can't assimilate, they can't understand.
JANEWAY: But we don't assimilate. We investigate. And in this case, that's given us an edge. We've discovered something they need.
NEELIX: But the Borg aren't exactly known for their diplomacy. How can we expect them to cooperate with us?
KES: Normally, the answer would be no. But if what I've learned from the aliens is true, the Borg are losing this conflict.
JANEWAY: In one regard, the Borg are no different than we are. They're trying to survive. I don't believe they're going to refuse an offer that will help them do that.
TUVOK: What makes you think the Borg won't attempt to take the information by assimilating Voyager and its crew.
JANEWAY: That won't get them anywhere. Doctor, you're the only one on board with full knowledge of the nanoprobe modifications. I want you to transfer all of that research into your holomatrix.
EMH: Certainly.
JANEWAY: You're my guarantee. If the Borg threaten us in any way, we'll simply erase your programme. But it won't come to that, Doctor. It's in the Collective's own interest to cooperate. Voyager is only one ship. Our safe passage is a small price to pay for what we're offering in exchange. B'Elanna, assist the Doctor with his transfer.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, locate the nearest Borg vessel and lay in a course. They shouldn't be difficult to find.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.
(Everyone leaves except Chakotay.)
JANEWAY: You were awfully quiet.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't want the others to hear this, but I think what you're proposing is too great a risk.
JANEWAY: How so?
CHAKOTAY: There's a story I heard as a child, a parable, and I never forgot it. A scorpion was walking along the bank of a river, wondering how to get to the other side. Suddenly he saw a fox. He asked the fox to take him on his back across the river. The fox said no. If I do that you'll sting me, and I'll drown. The scorpion assured him. If I did that, we'd both drown. So the fox thought about it and finally agreed. So the scorpion climbed up on his back, and the fox began to swim. But halfway across the river, the scorpion stung him. As the poison filled his veins, the fox turned to the scorpion and said why did you do that? Now you'll drown too. I couldn't help it, said the scorpion. It's my nature.
JANEWAY: I understand the risk, and I'm not proposing that we try to change the nature of the beast, but this is a unique situation. To our knowledge, the Borg have never been so threatened. They're vulnerable. I think we can take advantage of that.
CHAKOTAY: Even if we do somehow negotiate an exchange, how long will they keep up their end of the bargain? It could take months to cross Borg territory. We'd be facing thousands of systems, millions of vessels.
JANEWAY: But only one Collective, and we've got them over a barrel. We don't need to give them a single bit of information, not until we're safe. We just need the courage to see this through to the end.
CHAKOTAY: There are other kinds of courage. Like the courage to accept that there are some situations beyond your control. Not every problem has an immediate solution.
JANEWAY: You're suggesting we turn around.
CHAKOTAY: Yes. We should get out of harm's way. Let them fight it out. In the meantime, there's still plenty of Delta Quadrant left to explore. We may find another way home.
JANEWAY: Or we may find something else. Six months, a year down the road, after Species 8472 gets through with the Borg, we could find ourselves back in the line of fire, and we'll have missed the window of opportunity that exists right here, right now.
CHAKOTAY: How much is our safety worth?
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: We'd be giving an advantage to a race guilty of murdering billions. We'd be helping the Borg assimilate yet another species just to get ourselves back home. It's wrong!
JANEWAY: Tell that to Harry Kim. He's barely alive thanks to that species. Maybe helping to assimilate them isn't such a bad idea. We could be doing the Delta Quadrant a favour.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think you really believe that. I think you're struggling to justify your plan, because your desire to get this crew home is blinding you to other options. I know you, Kathryn. Sometimes you don't know when to step back.
JANEWAY: Do you trust me, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: That isn't the issue.
JANEWAY: Oh, but it is. Only yesterday you were saying that we'd face this together, that you'd be at my side.
CHAKOTAY: I still have to tell you what I believe. I'm no good to you if I don't do that.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your insights, but the time for debate is over. I've made my decision. Now, do I have your support?
CHAKOTAY: You're the Captain. I'm the First Officer. I'll follow your orders. That doesn't change my belief that we're making a fatal mistake.
JANEWAY: Then I guess I'm alone, after all. Dismissed.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: There are three planets in this system. Inhabitants, all Borg. A vessel is approaching.
JANEWAY: All stop. Shields up.
TUVOK: They're hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
TUVOK: They've locked onto us with a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Borg vessel, this is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. I have tactical information about Species 8472. I want to negotiate.
BORG [OC]: Negotiation is irrelevant. You will be assimilated.
JANEWAY: Borg vessel. What you're receiving is a sample of the knowledge we possess. If you don't disengage your tractor beam immediately, I will have that data destroyed. You have ten seconds to comply. We know you're in danger of being defeated. you can't afford to risk losing this information. Disengage your tractor
(Janeway is beamed away.)

[Borg Cube]

BORG [OC]: State your demands.
JANEWAY: I want safe passage through your space. Once my ship is beyond Borg territory, I'll give you our research.
BORG [OC]: Unacceptable. Our space is vast. Your passage would require too much time. We need the technology now.
JANEWAY: If I give it to you now, you'll assimilate us.
BORG [OC]: Species 8472 must be stopped. Our survival is your survival. Give us the technology.
JANEWAY: No. Safe passage first or no deal.
BORG [OC]: State your proposal.
JANEWAY: Let's work together, combine our resources. Even if we do give you the technology now, you're still going to need time to develop it. By working together, we can create a weapon more quickly. If you escort us through your space we can perfect the weapon as we
(Whumph! 8472 is attacking.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Where did that ship come from?
TUVOK: A quantum singularity has appeared twenty thousand kilometres away. The bioship is heading directly toward the planet.
TORRES: The Borg shields are weakening. We might be able to break free of the tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Can you get a lock on the Captain?
TUVOK: Not yet.
PARIS: Commander, there are nine more bioships coming out of the singularity.
(Eight of those ships surround a ninth and send energy to it. It then sends a massive energy beam towards a planet.)

[Borg Cube]

JANEWAY: What's going on?
(The planet goes KaBOOM! taking several Cubes with it. Voyager is towed away at high warp.)

To be continued


S4 E1
Scorpion Part 2
Stardate: 51001.2
Original Airdate: Sept 3rd, 1997
[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Report.
TORRES: The Borg shields are offline. I've got a lock on Captain Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: Get her out of there and break us free of the Cube. Stand by all weapons.
TORRES: I'm trying to energise. The Borg are scattering the beam.
CHAKOTAY: Compensate.
TORRES: No effect.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Commander. Cut the transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Do it. I've reached an agreement with the Collective. We're going to help them design a weapon against Species 8472. In exchange, they've granted us safe passage through their space.
PARIS: The Cube is altering course. They're heading toward the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: That's part of the plan. We'll work on the weapon en route. Once we're across their territory, we'll give them the nanoprobes. They appear to be holding up their end of the bargain. I suggest we do the same.
CHAKOTAY: How do you propose we begin this collaboration?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I'm going to work here, on the Cube. They have technology that'll make the job go faster. I want to take advantage of it.
CHAKOTAY: It's not necessary for you to stay there. We can set up a comlink with the Borg and
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: It's part of the deal. I work here.
CHAKOTAY: All right. As long as we're cooperating, maybe the Borg would be willing to disengage their tractor beam. We can match their course without a leash.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I'll propose it. Mister Tuvok, transport to my coordinates.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: We're going to make this work, Commander. Janeway out.
CHAKOTAY: You heard the Captain.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I replicated nearly ten million Borg nanoprobes, each of them reprogrammed to my specifications, each capable of targeting the alien tissue.
CHAKOTAY: Assimilating it.
EMH: Just momentarily. The Borg technology will denaturate within seconds, taking the alien tissue along with it. Mister Kim, I'm about to inject your carotid artery. You'll feel a tingling sensation. Don't be alarmed.
(Kim slowly opens his eyes.)
EMH: Nice to see you again, Ensign.
KES: It's working.
EMH: Prepare another dose of nanoprobes.
KES: Yes, Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Let me know when he's back on his feet.
EMH: Commander. I must tell you. I have my doubts about this alliance. You may have convinced the Borg the nanoprobes can defeat their enemy, but a medical treatment is a long way from a weapon of war.
CHAKOTAY: Leave that to the Captain. This situation is unpredictable so we're going to stay at full Red Alert. Keep all information about the nanoprobes stored in your holo-matrix.
EMH: Don't worry. I'll delete myself at the first sign of trouble. Well, maybe not the first sign.

[Bridge]

TORRES: We've just received word. Tuvok beamed to the Cube. He's joined the Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a transporter lock on both of them.
TORRES: I'll try, but the Borg are already regenerating their shields.
CHAKOTAY: Try matching their shield frequencies.
TORRES: It won't work. They'll be able to adapt too quickly.
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to hear what we can't do, Lieutenant! Just find a way to get our people out of there if we have to.
TORRES: Aye, sir.
PARIS: They've released their tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Match their course and speed.
PARIS: I never thought I'd hear myself say this, but, looks like the Borg are cooperating.

[Sickbay]

(Kes is working in the medical lab, when she sees a reflection of Species 8472 in the wall monitor. Then one appears, and she curls up into a ball.)
EMH: Kes? Kes! Kes! What's wrong?
KES: They're watching us.

[Borg Cube]

TUVOK: May I ask where we're being taken?
JANEWAY: Grid nine two of subjunction twelve. Our very own workspace. It's near the centre of the Cube.
TUVOK: These are my tricorder readings of the bioship we examined. I believe you will find them most revealing.
JANEWAY: Have you compared this to the Doctor's analysis of the alien tissue?
TUVOK: Yes. Many of the cellular structures are identical.
JANEWAY: The aliens and their ships are made of the same organic material.
TUVOK: Apparently so.

[Borg Chamber]

BORG [OC]: You have entered grid nine two of subjunction twelve. Proceed.
JANEWAY: All right. We've analysed one of the alien vessels, and it appears to be constructed of organic material vulnerable to the modified nanoprobes. I suggest we begin thinking about a large scale delivery system. A way to infect their ships and destroy them at the microscopic
BORG [OC]: We will begin.
(A Borg grabs Janeway and pushes her to her knees. Another grabs Tuvok.)
TUVOK: What are you doing?
BORG [OC]: A neural transceiver is required for maximum communication. We will work as one mind.
JANEWAY: No. That wasn't the agreement.
BORG [OC]: The neural link is temporary. You will not be damaged.
JANEWAY: I don't care. I prefer to communicate verbally, thank you.
BORG [OC]: Your primitive communication is inefficient.
TUVOK: On the contrary. We work better with our individuality intact. Surely, we've proven that to you by now.
BORG [OC]: Irrelevant. You must comply.
JANEWAY: We must do nothing. Tell your drone to remove the transceiver. What about choosing a representative? A single Borg we can work with and talk to directly.
BORG [OC]: Elaborate.
JANEWAY: You've done it before. When you transformed Jean-Luc Picard into Locutus. We will not be assimilated. Choose a representative or the deal's off.
(The neural transceivers are removed from their necks. A door opens, and a Borg is released from its alcove. It walks towards them. This one is clearly human female, with an hour-glass figure.)
SEVEN: I speak for the Borg.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway. This is Lieutenant Tuvok.
SEVEN: We are aware of your designations.
JANEWAY: What's your designation?
SEVEN: Seven of Nine, Tertiary Adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. But you may call me Seven of Nine. You are proposing a large-scale weapon. We concur.
JANEWAY: I thought you might.
TUVOK: We could encase the nanoprobes in some of our photon torpedoes. In essence, turn them into biomolecular warheads.
SEVEN: Your torpedoes are inadequate. They lack the necessary range and dispursive force.
JANEWAY: Do you have a better idea?
SEVEN: We are Borg.
TUVOK: I take that as a yes.
(Seven leads them to a computer monitor.)
SEVEN: A multikinetic neutronic mine. Five million isoton yield.
TUVOK: An explosion that size could affect an entire star system.
SEVEN: Correct. The shock wave will disperse the nanoprobes over a radius of five light years.
JANEWAY: That's somewhat larger than I had in mind. You're proposing a weapon of mass destruction.
SEVEN: We are.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm not. You'd be endangering innocent worlds.
SEVEN: It would be efficient.
TUVOK: We'd need approximately fifty trillion nanoprobes to arm this mine. It would take the Doctor several weeks to replicate that amount. You are losing this conflict. Are you willing to risk further delay?
JANEWAY: Right now your enemy believes it is invulnerable. If we create smaller weapons using our torpedoes and destroy a few of their bioships, it may deter them, convince them to give up this war.
SEVEN: You are individuals. You are small, and you think in small terms. But the present situation requires that we consider your plan. Voyager's weapons inventory. Photon torpedo complement thirty two. Class six warhead. Explosive yield two hundred isotons.
TUVOK: How did you obtain this information?
SEVEN: We are Borg.
TUVOK: Naturally.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is scanning Kes.)
EMH: Commander, we have some disturbing news.
CHAKOTAY: At this point, I'm getting used to it.
EMH: Her telepathic visions are increasing, both in frequency and intensity.
KES: It feels different this time. It's almost like they're right here, in the room.
EMH: There is it again.
KES: I'm trying to block them out, but I can't.
EMH: Every time she has a vision specific regions of her cerebral cortex go into a state of hyperstimulation. Memory engrams, perceptual centres. I can't be sure but I think there's more going on here than just a simple hello.

[Borg Chamber]

JANEWAY: Enhance this grid. I want to take a closer look at the detonator.
SEVEN: We must analyse the bioship. Your data.
(Janeway hands over her PADD.)
JANEWAY: You're human, aren't you?
SEVEN: This body was assimilated eighteen years ago. It ceased to be human at that time.
JANEWAY: I'm curious. What was your name before you were
SEVEN: Do not engage us in further irrelevant discourse. We are being hailed by your vessel.
JANEWAY: Commander, what is it?
CHAKOTAY [on monitor]: It's Kes. The Doctor believes that the aliens are accessing her memory.
JANEWAY: If that's true, they may already know what we're planning.
CHAKOTAY [on monitor]: I've ordered long range scans for bioships. Nothing so far.
JANEWAY: We should alter course, try to throw them off.
SEVEN: Agreed. Our course and heading have been changed.
JANEWAY: Match them, and keep me apprised of any changes in Kes.
CHAKOTAY [on monitor]: Chakotay out.
SEVEN: We now require one of your photon torpedoes and the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: One step at a time. We're not safely across your territory yet.
SEVEN: We must construct and test a prototype now. The risk of attack has increased.
JANEWAY: Irrelevant. We have an agreement. You're asking me to give up my only guarantee that you won't assimilate us. I won't risk it.
SEVEN: Are you willing to risk a direct confrontation with us? If we transport five hundred drones onto your vessel, do you believe you could offer sufficient resistance?
JANEWAY: We'd die trying.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. We must construct a launching system to accommodate this design.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Glad you could join us, Mister Kim.
PARIS: Harry. Welcome back.
KIM: Thanks. Reporting for duty, sir. The Doctor gave me a clean bill of health. Did I miss anything?
CHAKOTAY: Not too much. Take your station, Ensign.
TORRES: You've still got a tendril up your nose.
PARIS: Commander. I'm picking up gravimetric distortions twelve thousand kilometres aft. It's a singularity.

[Borg Chamber]

SEVEN: We are under attack.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They're charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Shields. Keep a lock on the Away Team.
TORRES: Direct hit to our secondary hull!
KIM: Transporters are offline! Shields and weapons are down.

[Borg Chamber]

TUVOK: Voyager has taken heavy damage.
SEVEN: We cannot let the nanoprobes be destroyed.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're being targeted!
CHAKOTAY: Brace for impact!
(The bioship fires at the Cube section next to Voyager. It's energy weapon lances its way inside, hitting a console next to Janeway and knocking her out. The Cube changes course, hitting the bioship. They both go mega-KaBOOM! Voyager rocks in the wake of the explosion.)
CHAKOTAY: The Cube?
PARIS: Destroyed, and it took the bioship with it.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Chakotay.
(Tuvok sounds rough.)
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Tuvok. Where are you?
TUVOK [OC]: I'm in Cargo Bay two

[Cargo Bay Two]

TUVOK: Along with the Captain and a number of Borg.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: We were beamed over just before impact. We require assistance.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok. Tuvok? Secure that deck. Security Team to Cargo Bay two. Paris, you have the bridge.

[Cargo Bay Two]

(Tuvok and Janeway are out cold. Chakotay and two security guards are armed with rifles. There are some Borg computer components around, too.)
SEVEN: Lower your weapons.
(She lowers her gun.)
SEVEN: We are here with your Captain's consent. It was necessary to sacrifice our vessel to protect yours. We have an alliance, do we not?

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: For now they're contained. They've assimilated Cargo Bay two and they're drawing energy from the secondary power couplings.
TUVOK: But they've gone no further.
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. I've sealed off decks nine through thirteen and posted security details at every access point.
TUVOK: I suggest we increase security around Sickbay as well.
CHAKOTAY: Already done. How far did you get on the weapon?
TUVOK: We're ready to construct a prototype.
KES: You're fit to return back to duty, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: And you, Kes?
KES: Oh, I'm all right. The visions have stopped for now.
(Janeway is on a biobed.)
EMH: The plasma burns to her thoracic region I can treat, and I've already stopped the internal bleeding. But her neural injuries are going to require some creative thinking.
TUVOK: Before we beamed out, an alien energy discharge struck very near the Captain.
EMH: Well, it appears to have disrupted all her neuroelectrical pathways. I'll have to induce a coma to protect her higher brain functions. But I must tell you, unless I can repair the damage, she may never regain consciousness.
CHAKOTAY: Make sure those Borg stay put. I want tactical updates every twenty minutes.
TUVOK: Aye, sir. Shall I resume working with them?
CHAKOTAY: Stand by for now.
EMH: The Captain wishes to speak with you. Please keep it brief.
JANEWAY: The Doctor explained my condition. You're in command.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
JANEWAY: They'll push you. They'll threaten you. But they need you. They need this alliance. You have to make this work. I want you to make this work. Get this crew home.
EMH: I must begin.

[Cargo Bay Two]

(The Borg have been busy building regeneration alcoves and other equipment.)
SEVEN: Where is your Captain? I must speak with her.
CHAKOTAY: In our medical bay, recovering. You'll be dealing with me now.
SEVEN: Circumstances have changed.
CHAKOTAY: I'd say so.
SEVEN: The loss of our vessel requires that we modify our agreement.
CHAKOTAY: I've been giving that some thought. I'm willing to let you stay on board. We'll continue to work with you on the weapon. Once we're safely out of Borg territory we'll give you the nanoprobes, shake hands and part company.
SEVEN: Insufficient. Our latest tactical projections indicate that the war will be lost by then. The nearest Borg vessel is forty light years away. You will reverse course and take us to it.
CHAKOTAY: Even at maximum warp, that's a five day journey in the wrong direction. We're supposed to be heading out of Borg space, not deeper into it.
SEVEN: There is no alternative.
CHAKOTAY: Look, I'll honour the original agreement, but I'm not turning this ship around. It's too dangerous.
SEVEN: Denying our request is also dangerous.
CHAKOTAY: I'll think about it.
SEVEN: Think quickly.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: A five day trip back into the heart of Borg territory. It's too risky. With those drones and the nanoprobes on board, we might as well have a bull's-eye painted on our hull. We're a prime target for Species 8472. We'd never survive another attack.
NEELIX: What is the alternative?
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to end this alliance here and now. We're going to drop the Borg off on the next uninhabited planet, give them the nanoprobes and take our chances alone. They can wait for a Borg ship to pick them up and finish the weapon. I'm in command now and I have to do what I think is best for this crew. Tom, I want you to scan for the nearest uninhabited planet and set a course.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: I must caution you, Commander. The Borg may not go quietly.
CHAKOTAY: We'll see. Bring that female drone to the Ready room. Dismissed.

[Ready room]

CHAKOTAY: Once we've beamed you to the surface, we'll send down the nanoprobes and all our research.
SEVEN: Unacceptable. We don't have time for
CHAKOTAY: This isn't open for discussion. I'm not turning this ship around. You're getting what you wanted. I suggest we part ways amicably.
SEVEN: There is another option. We could assimilate your vessel.
CHAKOTAY: If a single drone steps one millimetre out of that Cargo Bay, I'll decompress the entire deck. You won't pose much of a threat floating in space.
SEVEN: When your Captain first approached us, we suspected that an agreement with humans would prove impossible to maintain. You are erratic, conflicted, disorganised. Every decision is debated, every action questioned. Every individual entitled to their own small opinion. You lack harmony, cohesion, greatness. It will be your undoing.
CHAKOTAY: Escort our guest back to the Cargo Bay.

[Sickbay]

(Chakotay briefs his comatose Captain.)
CHAKOTAY: Well, I've made my decision. If it were only a matter of going against the orders of my superior officer. You're more than just my Captain. You're my friend. I hope you'll understand.

[Cargo Bay Two]

BORG [OC]: Species 8472 has penetrated Matrix zero one zero, grid nineteen. Eight planets destroyed. Three hundred twelve vessels disabled. Four million, six hundred twenty one Borg eliminated. We must seize control of the Alpha Quadrant vessel, and take it into the alien realm.
SEVEN: We understand.
(Seven enters a Jefferies tube.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Class H moon. Oxygen-argon atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: It'll do. Take us out of warp and enter orbit.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok. Stand by to transport the Borg directly from the Cargo Bay. After they're on the surface, have security run a sweep of
KIM: I'm reading power fluctuations in the deflector array.
CHAKOTAY: Cause?
KIM: It looks like the Borg have accessed deflector control. They're trying to realign the emitters.
CHAKOTAY: Shut them out.
KIM: They've bypassed security protocols.
(A green beam is emitted from the deflector dish.)
TORRES: We're emitting a resonant graviton beam. It's creating another singularity.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course.
PARIS: We're fighting intense gravimetric distortion. I can't break free.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Cargo Bay Two. Stop what you're doing, or I'll depressurise that deck and blow you out into space. This is your final warning. Do it!
(Borg drones are expelled from Voyager. Seven manages to hang on in the Jefferies tube.)
TUVOK: Decompression cycle complete.
KIM: I still don't have deflector control.
TUVOK: Commander, a single Borg has survived.
PARIS: We're being pulled in!
CHAKOTAY: Report.
TUVOK: We appear to have crossed an interdimensional rift.
PARIS: We've definitely left our galaxy. No stars, no planets.
CHAKOTAY: Let's see.
(The viewscreen shows a murky brown green expanse.)
TORRES: I'm re-calibrating sensors. The entire region is filled with some kind of organic fluid. This isn't space. It's matter.
SEVEN [OC]: Commander Chakotay. We have entered the domain of Species 8472. Report to the Cargo Bay.
CHAKOTAY: Paris, repressurise Cargo Bay two. Tuvok.

[Cargo Bay Two]

SEVEN: Our entry into fluidic space has created a compression wave. They know we're here. A fleet of bioships is already converging on our position. Time to intercept, three hours, seventeen minutes.
CHAKOTAY: You've been here before. How else could you know about fluidic space?
SEVEN: We must prepare this ship for the altercation. We will construct a complement of biomolecular warheads.
CHAKOTAY: Why? Why were you here? You started this war, didn't you? What's the matter, our galaxy wasn't big enough for you? You had to conquer new territory? But this race fought back. A species as malevolent as your own.
SEVEN: Species 8472 was more resistant than we anticipated. Their technology is biogenically engineered. It is superior to that of all species we have previously encountered.
TUVOK: Which is precisely what you wanted.
SEVEN: They are the apex of biological evolution. Their assimilation would have greatly added to our own perfection.
TUVOK: So instead of assimilating these aliens you opened a door for them to our galaxy.
SEVEN: There is only one course of action. Destroy them first. My subspace link to the Collective has been weakened by the interdimensional rift. We cannot signal for help. We are alone. We must construct a compliment of biomolecular warheads and modify your weapons to launch them.
CHAKOTAY: I've got a better idea. Why don't you open that rift again and take us back?
SEVEN: If I did that, you will no longer cooperate.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: Report to Sickbay at once.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.

[Sickbay]

(Janeway is up and back in uniform.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
EMH: Ah. As you can see, I've repaired her neural damage. Ensign Kim, the Captain, I'm two for two.
JANEWAY: Doctor. if you'll excuse us a moment.
EMH: Hmm? Eh? Oh. Gladly. Computer deactivate EMH programme.
JANEWAY: The Doctor brought me up to speed, but he couldn't tell me what I really wanted to know. Why?
CHAKOTAY: The Collective ordered me to reverse course, travel forty light years back the way we came. What would you have done?
JANEWAY: I probably would've reversed course. Maintained the alliance as long as possible.
CHAKOTAY: In my mind, the alliance was already over.
JANEWAY: You never trusted me. You never believed this would work. You were just waiting for an opportunity to circumvent my orders.
CHAKOTAY: Trust had nothing to with it. I made a tactical decision.
JANEWAY: And so did I.
CHAKOTAY: They have taking advantage of us from day one.
JANEWAY: We made concessions, so did they.
CHAKOTAY: They lied. The Borg started the war with Species 8472. We've only got one Borg left to worry about. We should try to disable her and get back to the Delta Quadrant. We might be able to duplicate the deflector protocols they used to open a singularity.
JANEWAY: No. I won't be caught tinkering with the deflector when those aliens attack. There's no other way out of this, Chakotay. It's too late for opinions, it's too late for discussion. It's time to make the call, and I'm making it. We fight the aliens in full cooperation with the Borg.
CHAKOTAY: I was linked to a Collective once, remember? I had a neurotransceiver embedded in my spine. I know who we're dealing with. We've got to get rid of that last Borg and take our chances alone.
JANEWAY: It won't work. This isn't working either. There are two wars going on. The one out there, and the one in here, and we're losing both of them.
CHAKOTAY: It will be your undoing.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Our conflicted nature. Our individuality. Seven of Nine said that we lack the cohesion of a Collective mind. That one day it would divide us and destroy us. And here we are, proving her point.
JANEWAY: I'll tell you when we lost control of this situation, when we made our mistake. It was the moment we turned away from each other. We don't have to stop being individuals to get through this, we just have to stop fighting each other.

[Bridge]

(Tuvok escorts Seven of Nine.)
SEVEN: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: I've relieved Mister Chakotay of his duties and confined him to the Brig. I'm back in command.
SEVEN: And you understand the situation.
JANEWAY: Completely. Tuvok, give her the nanoprobes. Work with her. Build as many warheads as you can and start modifying our weapons systems. I suggest we think about enhancing our defences, as well. If we're going to fight this battle, I intend to win it.
SEVEN: We are in agreement.
JANEWAY: Good. This is the plan. We engage the enemy here, in their space. We show them what they're up against. If they have any sense of self-preservation, they'll back off, pull their ships out of the Delta Quadrant. That's provided the weapons are effective. If they aren't, it's been nice working with you. We've got to get this ship armed and ready in under two hours. We're going to war.
(Under two hours later. Kes is sitting in Chakotay's seat.)
KIM: Borg modifications are complete.
JANEWAY: Bring them online.
(Bits of Voyager's hull light up Borg green.)
KIM: Torpedo launch tubes active. Hull armour engaged. Shield enhancements stable.
TUVOK: Biomolecular weapons are ready. Thirteen standard photon torpedoes. And one class ten, armed with a high yield warhead.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Ready your stations. Seal all emergency bulkheads and prepare to engage the enemy. Stand by for my orders.
PARIS: Four bioships have just entered sensor range.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.
KIM: I've got a visual.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KES: I can hear them. They want to talk through me. They say we've contaminated their realm.
JANEWAY: Tell them we had no choice. We were only trying to defend ourselves.
KES: They say our galaxy is impure. Its proximity is a threat to their genetic integrity.
JANEWAY: Tell them we have a weapon. A devastating weapon that can destroy them at the cellular level. If they don't stop their attacks on the Delta Quadrant, we'll be forced to use it.
KES: They said your galaxy will be purged.
(The bioships start firing. People are thrown to the decks.)
KIM: Shields and weapons are offline!
TUVOK: Rerouting emergency power to the launchers.
PARIS: They're coming around for another assault. I've lost thrusters.
TUVOK: Biomolecular warheads are charged and ready.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit on all four vessels. No effect.
KIM: They're charging weapons!
(Then one by one, the bioships go KaBOOM.)
TUVOK: The nanoprobes were successful, if not prompt. All four ships have been destroyed.
JANEWAY: I think we've made our point. Now open a singularity and get us out of here.
(Seven complies. They return to the Delta Quadrant, followed by bioships.)
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: Kes, are you still in contact?
KES: Yes.
JANEWAY: Tell them if they continue their attack, we'll use the weapon again.
KES: They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. They're in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Prepare to fire the high yield warhead. Aft torpedo bay.
TUVOK: Ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
(The torpedo explodes in the middle of the fleet.)
TUVOK: Thirteen bioships have been destroyed. The others are in retreat.
SEVEN: I have regained full contact with the Collective.
JANEWAY: What are they saying?
SEVEN: All remaining bioships in the Delta Quadrant are returning to their realm. The Borg have prevailed.
JANEWAY: With a little help from us. Now it's time you fulfilled your end of the agreement. Tell the Collective we expect safe passage from here on out. We'll give you a shuttlecraft. You can head for the nearest Borg ship.
SEVEN: Unacceptable. This alliance is terminated. Your ship and its crew will adapt to service us.
(Seven goes towards Paris. He fires a hand phaser at her, but the beam bounces off her shields.)
SEVEN: Resistance is futile.
(She pushes him aside and fires her assimilation tubules into the helm console.)
KIM: Captain, she's tapping into helm control. She's trying to access our coordinates.
JANEWAY: Shut her out.
KIM: I can't.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Chakotay. Scorpion.

[Cargo Bay Two]

(A neural transceiver is activated on Chakotay's neck. He is in one of the alcoves.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven of Nine, stop what you're doing. You're human. A human individual. Our minds are linked. We are one. I can hear your thoughts
EMH: His link is stable, but it won't be for long. You must hurry.
TORRES: Just a few more seconds.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I can see your memories.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: You remember being human.
SEVEN: We are Borg.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: I see a young girl. A family.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Irrelevant. Your appeal to my humanity is pointless.

[Cargo Bay two]

TORRES: Almost there, Chakotay. You've got to keep her distracted if we're going to make this work.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Listen to your human side. To yourself, the little girl. Seven of Nine. Annika!
EMH: He's losing the link!
TORRES: Initiating power surge now!
(Both Chakotay and Seven feel the effects of the energy surge. Their neural transceivers overload and they pass out.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Her connection to the Collective is severed.
JANEWAY: Get her to Sickbay. Bridge to Doctor. Report.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: Commander Chakotay's going to be all right, although he may wake up with a bit of a headache.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tom, plot a course out of Borg space. Maximum warp.
PARIS: Yes, Ma'am.

Captain's log, stardate 51003.7. Three days, and no sign of Borg or bioships. We appear to be out of danger, but the entire crew is still on edge and so am I. Not even the calm of Master Da Vinci's workshop is enough to ease my mind.

[Da Vinci's Workshop - night]

(Janeway is at a desk, writing with quill on parchment.)
CHAKOTAY: Am I interrupting?
JANEWAY: Not at all. Just finishing up my log.
CHAKOTAY: The old-fashioned way.
JANEWAY: I wanted to get as far away from bioimplants and fluidic space. And this feels more human somehow.
CHAKOTAY: I hate to spoil the mood, but you might want to look at this Engineering report. It'll take at least two weeks to remove the Borg technology from our systems. B'Elanna did note that the power couplings on deck eight work better with the Borg improvements.
JANEWAY: Leave them. How is our passenger?
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says she's stabilising. Her human cells are starting to regenerate.
JANEWAY: I wonder what's left under all that Borg technology. If she can ever become human again.
CHAKOTAY: You plan to keep her on board.
JANEWAY: We pulled the plug. We're responsible for what happens to her now.
CHAKOTAY: She was assimilated at a very young age. The Collective's all she knows. She might not want to stay.
JANEWAY: I think she might. We have something the Borg could never offer. Friendship.
CHAKOTAY: I want you to know that disobeying your orders was one of the most difficult things I've ever had to do.
JANEWAY: I understand. And I respect the decision you made, even though I disagree with it. What's important is that in the end we got through this, together. I don't ever want that to change.
CHAKOTAY: Agreed.
JANEWAY: Good. Well, I think it's time we get back to our bridge.
CHAKOTAY: No argument there.
(We are given a last lingering look at Seven on a biobed, one small implant blinking.)


S4 E2
The Gift
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 10 September, 1997

[Cargo Bay two]
(Voyager and Cargo Bay two are still heavily Borgified. Seven of Nine has been transferred from Sickbay to a regeneration unit. Janeway, the EMH and Tuvok enter.)
JANEWAY: So, how's the newest addition to our family?
EMH: At the moment she's stable, but the prognosis isn't clear. Her human physiology has begun to reassert itself. Respiratory system, neurological functions, immune response. But those systems are swarming with Borg implants. There's a battle being waged inside her body, between the biological and the technological, and I'm not sure which is going to win.
JANEWAY: Well, it's time we brought her up to date. Wake her.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway, What have you? The others. I can't hear the others. The voices are gone.
JANEWAY: We had to neutralise the neurotransceiver in your upper spinal column. Your link to the Collective has been severed.
SEVEN: You will return this drone to the Borg.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that
SEVEN: You will return this drone to the Borg!
JANEWAY: If I were to turn this ship around and head back into Borg territory I'd be putting my crew at risk. I'm not prepared to do that. Try to understand. You have to stay on board Voyager. But I'm offering you freedom from the Collective, and I assure you we will do everything we can to help the transition
SEVEN: You will supply us with a subspace transmitter and leave us on the nearest planet. The Borg will come for us.
JANEWAY: It's too late for that. Your human cells are starting to regenerate. You won't survive without medical care.
SEVEN: We need nothing from you. We are Borg. We are - ah!
EMH: This implant is being rejected by the tissue underneath. It's going to have to be removed.
SEVEN: You will suppress the human immune system.
EMH: I'm sorry, but the process has gone too far. We've got to get you to Sickbay.
SEVEN: No! We are Borg! We are Borg!
(Tuvok holds Seven while the EMH sedates her.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: This armour plating is anchored to the skull with over three million microconnectors. There's no time to cut through them. I'm going to have to remove the outer layer of the skull itself. Lieutenant, will you please leave the surgical bay.
TUVOK: This Borg is a security risk.
EMH: She is heavily sedated. I assure you she's not going anywhere.
(Tuvok steps back.)
EMH: Thank you. Kes, I want you to anaesthetise her cranial nerves. Twenty milligrams anetrazine.
KES: Yes, Doctor.
(The necessary hypo flies across from the trolley to her hand.)
EMH: Kes?
KES: I don't know what happened. I looked at the hypospray and it just came to me.
TUVOK: Have you been experimenting with your psychokinetic abilities?
KES: No, not for months, but I have been feeling a little strange lately. Lots of energy, sleeping less.
EMH: I can see why. Your serotonin levels are sixty two percent above normal. It's the telepathic centres of your brain. They're in a state of hyperstimulation like they were a few days ago when you were in contact with species 8472.
TUVOK: Are they attempting to communicate with you again?
KES: No. This time it's different. I don't feel their presence at all.
TUVOK: Perhaps she's experiencing an after-effect of some kind.
EMH: A reasonable diagnosis, for a security officer. I'll run a full microsynaptic analysis, but it will have to wait. We should get back to our Borg.

[Ready Room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Ship's status report. We've got two teams on the hull, stripping off the Borg armour. They're working around the clock but it's still slow going.
JANEWAY: What about the warp drive?
CHAKOTAY: Torres is having problems cleaning out the plasma relays. It's disrupting the antimatter reaction. Until she's got it fixed we're stuck at impulse. She's requesting all personnel with a level three engineering rating or higher to lend a hand.
JANEWAY: Granted. Tactical update?
CHAKOTAY: Long range sensors are picking up residual transwarp signatures, Borg vessels. They passed by probably three days ago.
JANEWAY: So we're not out of the woods yet.
CHAKOTAY: Having half our propulsion system overrun by Borg implants doesn't make repairs any easier.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine could help with that.
CHAKOTAY: That might be true if she were willing, but she's not in the most cooperative mood.
JANEWAY: That could change. I just have to reach her somehow.
(She shows him what she has been reading - Registery Archive Personnel Database.)
JANEWAY: Annika Hansen.
CHAKOTAY: Our Borg?
JANEWAY: It took some digging through the Federation database, but I managed to find a single entry in the records of Deep Space Four. Her parents were unconventional. They fancied themselves explorers, but wanted nothing to do with Starfleet or the Federation. Their names were last recorded at a remote outpost in the Omega sector. They refused to file a flight plan. Apparently, they aimed their small ship toward the Delta Quadrant and were never heard from again.
CHAKOTAY: For all we know, Annika and her parents were the first humans the Borg ever assimilated.
JANEWAY: From what she's told me, that was almost twenty years ago.
CHAKOTAY: So she was raised by the Borg. It's the only life she ever really knew. If you were thinking of bringing her into the fold, that might not be possible.
JANEWAY: What's the alternative? Toss her back to the wolves?
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor?
EMH [OC]: Could you come down here, Captain. We're having some problems.
JANEWAY: I'll be right there.

[Sickbay]

EMH: It's like peeling an onion.
(He removes a skull implant.)
EMH: Store it in a bio-stasis chamber. It may still be active. If you think there's a risk, Mister Tuvok, you can throw one of your little forcefields around the chamber.
TUVOK: A prudent security measure, for a doctor.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: I'm afraid we have a decision to make. A difficult one. Her human immune system has reasserted itself with a vengeance. Body armour, Borg organelles, biosynthetic glands, they're all being rejected. Her life is in danger. I have little recourse but to remove the Borg technology.
JANEWAY: Which is the last thing Seven of Nine would want.
EMH: Hence the difficult decision. If a patient told me not to treat them, even if the situation were life-threatening, I would be ethically obligated to honour that request.
JANEWAY: This is no ordinary patient. She may have been raised by Borg, raised to think like a Borg, but she's with us now. And underneath all that technology she is a human being, whether she's ready to accept that or not. And until she is ready, someone has to make the decisions for her. Proceed with the surgery.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
(Janeway leaves.)
EMH: Kes? Let's begin with the microtubular network embedded in the oesophageal tract.
(Seven starts fitting.)
TUVOK: What's happening?
EMH: I'm not sure. She's going into neural shock. I can't localise the source. Kes, try to stabilise her motor cortex. Use a neurosequencer. Kes, I said to stabilise her cortex or we're going to lose her.
KES: Wait. I can see it.
EMH: What?
KES: I think the problem is in her colliculli. Yes, I can see it. A Borg implant. It's pressing against her trochlear nerve.
EMH: Can you tell me how we might remove it without severing the nerve?
KES: I think I can do more than tell you.
(Kes' mind makes the tiny implant detach and dissolve. Seven stops moving.)
EMH: The implant is deteriorating. Her nervous system is stabilising. Nice work, Kes. Unconventional but effective.

[Medical lab]

(Later, the EMH shows Janeway an artificial eye.)
EMH: They say the eye is the window to the soul. In this case it's a little bit more. I've fabricated this artificial organ to replace her eyepiece, but I've had to retain some of the Borg circuitry along the optic nerve. As a result, she'll have increased acuity in one eye. Note how perfectly I've matched the pigment of the iris to her human eye.
JANEWAY: Excellent work, Doctor. I admire your attention to detail. When can I speak with her?
EMH: She's out of immediate danger, and I don't plan to resume the extraction process until tomorrow. I can wake her now, if you'd like.
JANEWAY: I would. How are you, Kes?
KES: I feel exhilarated, Captain. I've never been so focused in my life, and my telepathic abilities are stronger than they've ever been.
TUVOK: Your performance today was astonishing. However, your psychokinetic powers are still undisciplined, and as a result, unpredictable.
KES: I feel like I'm in control.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, you must proceed with caution. And with my assistance.
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting?
TUVOK: A series of guided meditations to help her explore the depth of these new abilities.
JANEWAY: Kes?
KES: I'm ready.
TUVOK: Well then, if you'll excuse us, we should begin immediately.

[Sickbay]

(Seven's skin is now pink.)
EMH: Ready when you are, Captain.
(He wakes Seven.)
EMH: Don't be alarmed. You're in Sickbay. You're going to be fine.
SEVEN: What have you done to me!
EMH: Your body was rejecting the Borg technology. You were dying. I'm sorry, but we had no choice. Those are dermoplastic grafts. They'll help the regeneration process.
SEVEN: Unacceptable.
(Seven gets off the biobed.)
SEVEN: You should have let us die.
JANEWAY: I couldn't do that.
SEVEN: This drone cannot survive outside the Collective.
EMH: I beg to differ. Now that the Borg implants are being excised, your human systems are free to thrive. And thriving they are. As a matter of fact, I
(Janeway silences him with a Look. He walks away.)
JANEWAY: I want to help you, but I need to understand what you're going through.
SEVEN: Do not engage us in superficial attempts at sympathy.
JANEWAY: It's obvious that you're in pain. That you're frightened. That you feel isolated. Alone.
SEVEN: You are an individual. You are small. You cannot understand what it is to be Borg.
JANEWAY: No, but I can imagine. You were part of a vast consciousness, billions of minds working together. A harmony of purpose and thought. No indecision, no doubts. The security and strength of a unified will. And you've lost that.
SEVEN: This drone is small now. Alone. One voice, one mind. The silence is unacceptable. We need the others!
JANEWAY: I can't give you back to the Borg, but you're not alone. You're part of a human community now. A human collective. We may be individuals but we live and work together. You can have some of the unity you require right here on Voyager.
SEVEN: Insufficient.
JANEWAY: It'll have to do. And the fact is, this community needs you. The Borg modifications you made to our vessel are disrupting our warp drive. We need your help to remove them, your expertise, your cooperation. You must comply.

[Engineering]

TORRES: All right, I think I've got all the Borg garbage out of the plasma intake manifold. Let's try reinitialising the antimatter reaction.
KIM: Matter antimatter reaction at twenty two cochranes and rising.
(Then it stops again.)
TORRES: Damn! What happened?
KIM: Intake manifolds eleven and thirteen are still blocked.
TORRES: This is like pulling weeds. You think you've got them all out and then
(Janeway and Seven enter.)
SEVEN: You have neglected to remove the autonomous regeneration sequencers.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres, Ensign Kim, you remember Seven of Nine.
KIM: How could we forget?
JANEWAY: We can't afford to delay repairs any longer, so I've asked her to help us remove the Borg modifications. She only has a few hours before she returns to Sickbay. I suggest you put here to good use.
TORRES: You can start with the plasma relays. They're in Jefferies tube thirteen.
SEVEN: Jefferies tube thirteen alpha section twelve. We fully recall the engineering specifications of your vessel.
TORRES: Good. Can you also recall the way it looked before you turned it into a Borg circus?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Well, now that the pleasantries are over, why don't you get to work? I want updates every hour.
TORRES: Yes, Captain.

[Kes's quarters]

TUVOK: The flame of the lamp is fire disciplined, tamed and under control. It is the appropriate focus for the task ahead of us.
KES: How do we begin?
TUVOK: I will attempt to guide you in manipulating the flame at the subatomic level. Concentrate on the flame. Try to see past the surface, past the light, to the patterns of energy and matter.
KES: I can see the essence of the fire.
TUVOK: Good. Now reach out with your mind and intensify the flame.
KES: I'm making it hotter, brighter.
TUVOK: Now, with your thoughts, reduce the flame. Excellent. You never demonstrated this level of control before.
KES: It's as though I knew what had to be done.
TUVOK: What's wrong?
KES: Something's happening. I can see further, beyond the subatomic.
TUVOK: Kes, there is nothing beyond the subatomic.
KES: But I can see it, Tuvok. It's a new level of reality. It's beautiful.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should stop for now.
KES: Wait a few seconds. I want to try to control it.
(The lamp wibbles.)
KES: Don't worry, Tuvok.
(And returns to normal.)

[Engineering]

TORRES: What about these linkages. Every time I pull one out another one comes back in it's place.
SEVEN: Autonomous regeneration sequencers. They function to counteract resistance.
KIM: Amazing. How did you come up with the pattern duplication design?
SEVEN: We came up with nothing. The Borg assimilated this technology in Galactic Cluster three from species two five nine.
TORRES: I'm not interested in a history lesson. How do we disable it?
SEVEN: You must disconnect each sequencer conduit at the insertion juncture.
TORRES: Why don't you two work on the Jefferies tube. Start with the plasma relays.

[Jefferies Tube thirteen]

KIM: I'll start here. You said the Borg got this stuff from species two five nine. Who are they? Guess the Borg meet a lot of people, don't they? Stupid question. So, what's it like out there in Galactic Cluster three?
SEVEN: Beyond your comprehension.
KIM: Try me.
SEVEN: Galactic Cluster three is a transmaterial energy plane intersecting twenty two billion omnicordial lifeforms.
KIM: Ah. Interesting.
(Seven's eyepiece zooms in on a communications node - Starfleet ID 59S47B.)
SEVEN: Ensign Kim. Your assistance.
(She hits him, knocking him into the guard standing nearby.)

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, somebody's trying to access the subspace transmitter.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Captain, I don't know how, but she's erected some kind of forcefield around the door. We can't break through it.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: She's bypassed our security protocols.
JANEWAY: Disable the transmitter.
CHAKOTAY: It's too late.

[Kes' quarters]

TUVOK: It's obvious your mental abilities have progressed beyond this particular Vulcan exercise. I suggest we. What is it?
KES: Something's wrong. The Borg is trying to contact her people.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Security team one. Intruder alert in Engineering.
KES: Wait. I think I can stop her.
(A ripple passes through the Jefferies Tube wall until it reaches Seven. She is thrown backwards.)
KES: It's over.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Status.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: There was some kind of explosion in the Jefferies tube just as she was about to initiate her transmission.

[Kes' quarters]

JANEWAY [OC]: We don't know what caused it.
TUVOK: I believe I may have the answer, Captain.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I can tell by the expression on your face that you've got some bad news.
TUVOK: I have no expression on my face. However, you are correct. The news on two separate fronts is not good. I checked the subspace bandwidths. At least a partial signal was transmitted from Voyager.
JANEWAY: Enough for a Borg ship to track?
TUVOK: Possibly.
JANEWAY: And the second front?
TUVOK: I believe there is also cause for concern regarding Kes.
JANEWAY: Explain.
TUVOK: Internal sensor logs show that she destabilised the Jefferies tube at the molecular level. The effect weakened the infrastructure throughout the deck. She wishes to develop her abilities further. I am not certain it would be safe, for Kes or Voyager.
JANEWAY: I've got an Ocampan who wants to be something more and a Borg who's afraid of becoming something less. Here's to Vulcan stability. Wait for me.

[Brig]

SEVEN: So this is human freedom.
JANEWAY: I've decided to keep you in the Brig until I'm certain you won't try to harm us again. If necessary the Doctor can treat you here. I honestly believed you were going to help us.
SEVEN: You were not deceived, Captain Janeway. It was my intention to help you.
JANEWAY: What happened?
SEVEN: There was a chance to contact the Collective. I took advantage of it. Your attempt to assimilated this drone will fail. You can alter our physiology but you cannot change our nature. We will betray you. We are Borg.
JANEWAY: I've met Borg who were freed from the Collective. It wasn't easy for them to accept their individuality, but in time they did. You're no different. Granted, you were assimilated at a very young age, and your transition may be more difficult, but it will happen.
SEVEN: If it does happen, we will become fully human?
JANEWAY: Yes, I hope so.
SEVEN: We will be autonomous. Independent.
JANEWAY: That's what individuality is all about.
SEVEN: If at that time we choose to return to the Collective, will you permit it?
JANEWAY: I don't think you'll want to do that.
SEVEN: You would deny us the choice as you deny us now. You have imprisoned us in the name of humanity, yet you will not grant us your most cherished human right. To choose our own fate. You are hypocritical, manipulative. We do not want to be what you are. Return us to the Collective!
JANEWAY: You lost the capacity to make a rational choice the moment you were assimilated. They took that from you, and until I'm convinced you've gotten it back, I'm making the choice for you. You're staying here.
SEVEN: Then you are no different than the Borg.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Talaxian champagne, moon-ripened. Your favourite.
KES: Neelix, where did you get this?
NEELIX: I put a bottle away for a special occasion. Remember when we last sipped this together?
KES: Three years ago. It was when we first arrived on Voyager.
NEELIX: And do you remember the toast I made?
KES: Yes. To the adventure.
NEELIX: To the adventure. When you left Ocampa, you said that your people were being held beck. That if you were only given the chance you could become something so much more. And you have.
KES: I know things have worked out exactly the way we planned.
NEELIX: I was only holding you back. That's obvious to me now.
KES: No. I couldn't have come this far without you. And I love you. I always will. It's just, er
NEELIX: My cooking. You've always hated my cooking.
KES: That's exactly what it was.
NEELIX: Ah. So, tell me more about what's happening to you. What does it all mean?
KES: I don't know, and that's what makes it all so exciting. It's as if I can see into a place where the distinction between matter and energy and thought no longer exists. And that's only the beginning. I feel as if all the boundaries within me are about to fall away.
NEELIX: It sounds ah, sper, ah, interesting.
KES: I only have to look at an object, to gaze at it, and I can begin to see that the space between the atoms is being filled with something else.
(The table starts to wibble.)
NEELIX: Er, Kes.
KES: I can see them, I can see.
NEELIX: Kes, stop!
KES: No.
(She looks up at Neelix, and he gets thrown backwards.)
KES: Neelix!

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, I'm picking up some strange energy readings from deck two, the mess hall.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Neelix. What's going on down there? Neelix, report.
KIM: The bulkhead in that section is coming apart.
CHAKOTAY: Increase the structural integrity field on deck two.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
(Janeway and Tuvok enter the mess hall to see Kes on her knees, smiling, glowing and semi-transparent. Then she solidifies again.)

[Doctor's office]

EMH: I've run every conceivable neural analysis. Everything short of dissecting the brain itself. Her telesynaptic activity is increasing but I don't know why, or how to stop it. Have the ship's internal sensors revealed anything?
TUVOK: For seventeen point four seconds Kes's body went into a state of cellular flux. She began to destabilise at the subatomic level.
JANEWAY: Then for some reason her atoms re-established their bonds and she was back in one piece.
EMH: But what about the next time? Her condition is escalating. We must find a way to suppress it, or the last we see of Kes could very well be her molecules blowing through the ventilation ducts.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, enhance the structural integrity fields throughout the ship. If she has another incident I'd like to avoid a hull breach. Doctor, maybe it's time we broaden our horizons. This appears to have gone beyond medical science. We're into particle physics now.
EMH: I'll try looking through the quantum substructure database. Maybe it'll give me some inspiration.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed.

{Sickbay]

EMH: Kes, until I can devise another diagnostic procedure, you're free to return to your quarters.
KES: Actually, I'd like to stay here, help with the research.
EMH: I don't want you to overexert yourself and risk precipitating another telepathic incident. Try to get some rest.
KES: Just let me stay for a little while. I haven't seen you much over the past few days. I miss you.
EMH: All right. Just for a while.
(Down in the Brig, Seven starts throwing herself at the forcefield.)

[Bridge]

AYALA [OC]: Ensign Ayala to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Ensign.
AYALA [OC]: You'd better come down to the Brig, ma'am.

[Brig]

SEVEN: One. One.
(Janeway enters. Seven is just pacing sadly now.)
SEVEN: My designation is Seven of Nine. but the others are gone. Designations are no longer relevant. I am one.
JANEWAY: Yes, you are.
SEVEN: But I cannot function this way. Alone.
JANEWAY: You're not alone. I'm willing to help you.
SEVEN: If that's true, you won't do this to me. Take me back to my own kind.
JANEWAY: You are with your own kind. Humans.
SEVEN: I don't remember being human. I don't know what it is to be human.
(Janeway picks up a PADD and lowers the forcefield.) <br>
SEVEN: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: I'm coming in.
SEVEN: I'll kill you.
JANEWAY: I don't think you will.
(Janeway enters the cell, staying out of arms reach. She shows Seven the picture from the Personnel File on the PADD.)
JANEWAY:  Do you remember her? Her name was Annika Hansen. She was born on stardate 25479 at the Tendara Colony. There's still a lot we don't know about her. Did she have any siblings? Who were her friends? Where did she go to school? What was her favourite colour? 
(Seven looks at the picture for a while, then slaps it out of Janeway's hand.)
SEVEN: Irrelevant! Take me back to the Borg.
JANEWAY: I can't do that.
SEVEN: So quiet. One voice.
JANEWAY: One voice can be stronger than a thousand voices. Your mind is independent now, with it's own unique identity.
SEVEN: You are forcing that identity upon me. It's not mine.
JANEWAY: Oh yes, it is. I'm just giving you back what was stolen from you. The existence you were denied, the child who never had a chance. That life is yours to live now.
SEVEN: Don't want that life.
JANEWAY: It's what you are. Don't resist it.
SEVEN: No!
(She collapses into Janeway's arms. Janeway helps her back to the bunk and holds her.)

Captain's log, supplemental. Warp drive is still offline and we don't know whether the Borg have detected us. Kes' psychokinetic abilities continue to damage the ship's structural integrity, and as a result our defences have been compromised.

[Kes' quarters]

KES: Come in, Captain.
JANEWAY: You wanted to see me. Ah, Tuvok's meditation lamp. I was with him when he got it six years ago, from a Vulcan master. Who doubled the price when he saw our Starfleet insignias.
KES: I'm sure it was the logical thing to do. I've been thinking about everything that's been going on, and I know what I have to do. It's time for me to leave Voyager.
JANEWAY: Oh, Kes.
KES: Something important is happening to me, and I want to explore it. But I can't stay here any longer. I'm a danger to all of you.
JANEWAY: We're going to get to the bottom of this. The Doctor's already working on a new approach.
KES: Everybody thinks that what's happening is a medical condition. That's not it at all. I'm going though a transformation. I don't know how or why, but every cell in my body is telling me that I'm changing into something more.
JANEWAY: What if it's not true? What if you're simply being swept up in the excitement of something you think is happening, but it's not real? On the basis of a feeling, an intuition, you're asking me to let you go, quite likely for ever? Kes, I just can't do that.
KES: It's my decision. My fate. Would you really try to stop me?
JANEWAY: No. But argue with you? Even plead with you to reconsider? Absolutely, for as long as it takes.
KES: It won't work. Look at me, Captain. I'm the same Kes you've always known. I haven't lost my judgment. I'm not under some alien influence. I believe something crucial is happening to me and I want to see it through.
JANEWAY: You've lived most of your life here. Voyager has been your home. And you've been a vital part of this family. Oh, I'm going to miss you.  
(They hug.)
KES: Now all I have to do is tell the Doctor. He's not going to be happy.
 (Kes briefly becomes semi-transparent.)
KES: It's starting.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay here.
JANEWAY [OC]: Prepare a shuttle for launch and have Tuvok meet me on deck six.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY [OC]: Kes is leaving us.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Come on.
KES: Captain, I can't stop it.  
(Something explodes behind them.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay. Beam us directly to the shuttlebay.

[Bridge]

KIM: The molecules in Kes' body are destabilising. It's interfering with the transporter.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we can't get a lock.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Looks like we're going to have to do this the hard way.
(They run. The ship's hull starts to ripple.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: What's happening?
PARIS: The hull is destabilising. The molecular bonds are breaking down.

[Corridor]

KES: Tuvok. I can't keep going.
TUVOK: I will attempt a mind meld to help you delay the transformation. Our minds are one. Our thoughts are one. Try to regain control for a moment. Only for a moment. Only for a moment. You must hurry.

[Bridge]

KIM: Hull breach on decks three, four and five.
CHAKOTAY: Emergency containment fields.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to the bridge. Kes is aboard the shuttle. Initiate launch sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
(The shuttlecraft flies out of the bay and goes up.)
PARIS: Shuttle distance, one hundred thousand kilometres. Speed, one quarter impulse.
 (Janeway and Tuvok enter.)
JANEWAY: Can you hail her?
KIM: I've been trying.
KES [OC]: What's happening? What's happening to me.
KIM: Her atomic structure is completely destabilising.

[Shuttlecraft]

KES: My gift to you.
(Kes disappears from the shuttlecraft. Voyager is enveloped in a bright light and then vanishes.)

[Engineering]

TORRES: Torres to bridge. The warp core just came online.

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: Matter antimatter reaction at one hundred and

[Engineering]

TORRES: Two percent. A hundred and ten percent? A hundred and twenty!

[Bridge]

PARIS: This can't be right. Our speed is - it's impossible!
KIM: We're coming apart!
PARIS: We've just dropped out of whatever it was we were in.
CHAKOTAY: Systems coming back online.
JANEWAY: On screen. Where are we?
PARIS: Nine point five thousand light years from where we just were.
JANEWAY: She's thrown us safely beyond Borg space. Ten years closer to home.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven is no longer in the rubber Borg suit, but a silver cat-suit with high heels. She also has blonde hair fastened back in a pleat. The EMH enters with Janeway and a guard..)
EMH: I've extracted eighty two percent of the Borg hardware. The remaining bio-implants are stable, and better than anything I could synthesise at such short notice.
SEVEN: It is acceptable.
EMH: Fashion, of course, is hardly my forte. Nevertheless, I've managed to balance functionality and aesthetics in a pleasing enough manner. I also took the liberty of stimulating your hair follicles. A vicarious experience for me, as you might imagine.
(The EMH walks away.)
JANEWAY: You'll have to spend a few hours each day regenerating in a Borg alcove until your human metabolism can function on it's own. We'll leave one operational.
SEVEN: Understood.
JANEWAY: Let's see how things go over the next few weeks. I'll consider granting you access to the rest of the ship once that I can trust that you won't try to get us all assimilated again.
SEVEN: It will not happen again.
JANEWAY: Good. If you need anything, contact me.
SEVEN: Red.
JANEWAY: What?
SEVEN: The child you spoke of, the girl. Her favourite colour was red.
(In his quarters, Tuvok puts the lit meditation lamp in his window, to help Kes find her way home.)


S4 E3
Day of Honor
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 17 September 1997

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I understand you wanted to see me.
SEVEN: I'm told you are the officer in charge of personnel. That you prepare the duty assignments. Is that the correct phrase?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
SEVEN: I am finding it difficult to spend so much time alone. I am unaccustomed to it. The hours do not pass quickly.
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that. How can we help?
SEVEN: I've been considering the matter carefully. I would like to request a duty assignment.
CHAKOTAY: Did you have something specific in mind?
SEVEN: Yes.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Now what!?
VORIK: There's been a rupture in the coolant injector.
TORRES: I can see that. Why haven't you sealed it off?
VORIK: I am attempting to do so.
(The leak stops.)
TORRES: That's better.
VORIK: Lieutenant, I have an idea. Perhaps it would be advisable to reconfigure the coolant assembly. That would give us greater control over the pressure valve emissions.
TORRES: You're probably right. And tomorrow we can do it first thing. But not today.
VORIK: I don't understand. Why wait until tomorrow? Today would be a much better
TORRES: Not today, Vorik.
PARIS: Good morning. Here's the helm control evaluation you wanted.
TORRES: Thank you.
PARIS: Are we still on for dinner tonight?
TORRES: I may have to work. I'll let you know.
PARIS: Ah ha. Okay. Have you decided if you're, if you're going through with it?
TORRES: I have. And I'm not. Today hasn't started out very well, and the last thing I need is to get involved with some obscure Klingon ritual.
PARIS: You were the one who suggested it.
TORRES: I know. And for one sentimental minute I thought that I might actually go through with it. But not anymore.
PARIS: Of course not. You wouldn't want to get too sentimental.
TORRES: I overslept this morning because I forgot to tell the computer to wake me. And then the acoustic inverter in my sonic shower blew out.
PARIS: That'll make your hair stand on end.
TORRES: So I didn't have time for breakfast. And when I got here two people were out sick, so I had to cancel the fuel cell overhaul. And then an injector burst for no apparent reason and started spewing plasma coolant
PARIS: That's a run of bad luck, all right.
TORRES: So I am in a bad mood, and I know that I am being a little bit testy.
PARIS: No, that's okay. Think about that dinner.
(Chakotay enters. Paris whispers to him on his way out.)
PARIS:  Be careful.
CHAKOTAY: Something interesting just happened.
TORRES: What's that?
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine requested a duty assignment.
TORRES: Fascinating.
CHAKOTAY: She wants to work in Engineering.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY: The Borg use transwarp conduits to travel through space faster than warp speed. If we could create one of them.
TORRES: We don't know anything about transwarp technology. Playing around with it could be dangerous.
CHAKOTAY: That's where Seven of Nine comes in. She's offered to work with you.
TORRES: What do you think her real motives are?
CHAKOTAY: She's having a tough time making the transition from the Collective. She wants something to do.
TORRES: I never thought of you as naive, Chakotay. The bottom line is, I don't want her working in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: The bottom line is, I'm giving you an order and you're going to follow it, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Whatever you say, sir.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Seven of Nine, you told me you wouldn't make any more attempts to contact the Borg. I want to believe that's true.
SEVEN: I assure you it is.
JANEWAY: I've decided not to post a security detail while you're in Engineering, but you have to realise there are rules. You'll be expected to follow our protocols. You'll report directly to Lieutenant Torres and obey any order she gives you.
SEVEN: I understand.
JANEWAY: One more thing. Your designation, Seven of Nine, it's a little cumbersome. Wouldn't you prefer to be called by your given name, Annika?
SEVEN: I have been Seven of Nine for as long as I can remember.
JANEWAY: All right. But maybe we could streamline it a little. How would you feel about Seven?
SEVEN: Imprecise, but acceptable.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Tuvok.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Please come to the bridge. A ship is approaching.
(Janeway enters, with Seven following.)
TUVOK: It's damaged but functional. Energy emissions are so low, it's probably not capable of warp speed. Several dozen lifesigns aboard. We are being hailed, Captain.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: I am Rahmin. My people are the Caatati. I apologise for our appearance and the condition of our ship. Most of our people were assimilated by the Borg over a year ago. We lost everything.
JANEWAY: How many of you escaped?
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: A few thousand on thirty ships. All that's left from a planet of millions.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: Captain, I want to assure you, my people were once proud and accomplished.
JANEWAY: I understand.
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: It pains me to have to ask this, but I have eighty eight people to care for on this vessel. We need food, medicines. Is there any way you could help us?
JANEWAY: Of course. Send us a list of your needs and we'll see what we can do.
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: I'm deeply grateful. If it's not too much to ask, is there any way you might also spare a small quantity of thorium isotopes? Without them, our systems can't function.
JANEWAY: I think we can arrange that. I'll speak to my engineer.
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: You can't imagine what this means to us, Captain. Thank you.

[Engineering]

(Seven is working at the warp core console.)
TORRES: How are those thorium isotopes coming, Vorik?
VORIK: I'll admit I'm having trouble controlling the neutron absorption.
TORRES: Try increasing the temperature of the plasma. Get the thorium to the captain as soon as it's ready.
VORIK: Of course.
TORRES: Tell me something. When you hear about people like the Caatati, do you have any feelings of remorse?
SEVEN: No.
TORRES: That's it? Just no?
SEVEN: What further answer do you require?
TORRES: Oh, maybe some kind of acknowledgement of the billions of lives you helped destroy. A justification for what you did. Maybe a little sense of guilt?
SEVEN: Guilt is irrelevant.
TORRES: Heartwarming.
SEVEN: I've set the parameters for the tachyon bursts we'll need to create a transwarp conduit. It will be several hours before the main deflector can be modified. I think it would be best if I waited in my alcove.
TORRES: I think you're right.

[Mess hall]

(Torres gives up playing with her food.)
NEELIX: If I ever saw a job for the morale officer, it's sitting right here. I'll bet I can help.
TORRES: You're facing a big challenge, Neelix.
NEELIX: I enjoy a challenge.
(He produces a dish from behind his back.)
TORRES: Is that supposed to make me feel better?
NEELIX: Blood pie, for the Day of Honour.
TORRES: How did you know about that? Has Tom been talking to you?
NEELIX: Not at all. No, I make it a point to know these things. And if I'm correct, many Klingon families traditionally serve blood pie on the Day of Honour.
TORRES: I appreciate the gesture, Neelix, but I've decided to ignore this particular tradition. No blood pie, no examining my behaviour over the last year to see if I measure up to Klingon standards.
NEELIX: Understood. Lieutenant, without knowing why there's a black cloud hanging over your head, may I suggest something?
TORRES: Go right ahead.
NEELIX: You have a bit of a temper that you keep reined in, and sometimes it builds up inside you until you explode at someone.
TORRES: I'd say that about sums it up.
NEELIX: I'm offering to be a pressure valve.
TORRES: What?
NEELIX: You may use me to blow off steam. When you're angry, come see me. Call me names, insult me, question my parentage. I won't take it personally. And you won't need to keep things bottled up inside anymore.
TORRES: That may be the nicest offer I've had in a long time. Thank you, Neelix. You're sweet, but I'm not sure I could do that to you.
NEELIX: I'm here if you need me.
TORRES: Neelix. About this Day of Honour. Do you think I should go through with it?
NEELIX: I've always thought traditions were good things, worth preserving.
TORRES: I've been thinking a lot about the rituals that my mother taught me, and they don't seem quite so hateful as they did when I was a child. Maybe being so far away from anything Klingon has changed me.
NEELIX: It certainly can't hurt to go through with the ceremony.
TORRES: I don't know what effect it'll have on me. That's what's frightening. All right, bring on the blood pie. I can do this.
(She takes a spoonful. Her expression suggests eating it is an ordeal in itself.)

[Holodeck]

(The usual dark cave lit by torches and fat candles.)
MOKLOR: Qapla'! What warrior goes there!
TORRES: My name's B'Elanna.
MOKLOR: Do you come to have your honour challenged?
TORRES: I guess so. Yes.
MOKLOR: Are you willing to see the ceremony through to the end?
TORRES: That's the idea, isn't it? What do I do?
MOKLOR: It will be a lengthy ordeal. First, you must eat from the heart of a sanctified targ.
(Another Klingon brings a dish and Torres takes a piece.)
MOKLOR: Pak'logh! Yes, the heart of targ brings courage to one who eats it. Next, you will drink mot'lach from the Grail of Kahless. Drink to the glory of Kahless, the greatest warrior of all time!
(Torres drinks, and coughs.)
MOKLOR: Kahless defeated his enemies on the field of battle and built a mighty empire. How have you proven yourself worthy?
TORRES: I haven't built any empires, and I can't say that I've personally defeated any enemies in battle, but you have to realise I'm not living among warriors.
MOKLOR: Then how do you expect to distinguish yourself?
TORRES: I don't know. I guess I'm doing the best I can.
MOKLOR: Huh. A pitiful reply. Let us proceed. A warrior must endure great hardship. To test your mettle you will endure the ritual of twenty pain-sticks. After that, you will engage in combat with a master of the bat'leth. Finally, you will traverse the sulphur lagoons of Gorath.
TORRES: You know, I don't think so. I didn't want to do this before you described it. Certainly not now. I'm leaving.
MOKLOR: Not until you have completed the ceremony, p'tach.
(They jab Torres with pain sticks. She gasps and falls to her knees, then attacks Moklor.)
TORRES: Thanks so much. It's been lovely.

[Torres' quarters]

TORRES: Come in.
PARIS: I tried to find you before, but you were on the holodeck.
TORRES: That's right.
PARIS: You know, you left it running. There was a Klingon in there who didn't look too happy.
TORRES: Really?
PARIS: Yeah, and he was nursing a whale of a black eye. Looked like he'd had a run in with someone having a really bad day.
TORRES: That's very funny.
PARIS: So, how'd it go?
TORRES: It didn't. Do you mind if we talk about something else?
PARIS: As a matter of fact I do. You have been like a spitting cobra all day and it's getting boring. You know, we designed that holodeck programme together, and I think you owe me the courtesy of telling me what happened.
TORRES: It was ridiculous, meaningless posturing. Honour, dishonour, what does it matter?
PARIS: It matters because it's part of who you are. You've been running away from that your whole life.
TORRES: Who are you to tell me that?
PARIS: I care about you, but if you're going to keep pushing me away then there's no point in my staying around, is there?
TORRES: Fine! Just leave me alone.
PARIS: Don't worry. If this is the way you treat people who try to be your friend, you'll be alone all right.

[Briefing room]

(The Caatati are identical, but the novelisation names the character as the second one in the following scenes.)
LUMAS: There are over two hundred people on our three ships alone. Everyone of them suffers from malnourishment, but it's been hardest on the children. Every parent sacrifices for their child, but even so, there's not enough food. If you could hear the crying of the babies, you would have as much trouble sleeping at night as I do.
TUVOK: Have you considered relocation to a planet where you could grow your own food?
LUMAS: Of course, but we haven't been welcomed anywhere. Because we have no resources everyone treats us like vagrants, even criminals.
CHAKOTAY: We're not unsympathetic, but we have limited supplies. We can't possibly provide enough for all your people.
LUMAS: Forgive me but, from my perspective you live in luxury. You don't suffer from debilitating diseases. You have many sources of energy. Replicators. Your crew is very well fed. Apparently, keeping your bellies full is more important to you than helping those less fortunate.
NEELIX: That's unfair. These are the most generous people you could hope to meet. But if we gave supplies to everyone who asked, we wouldn't have anything left.
JANEWAY: Neelix, how much food can we spare?
NEELIX: We could provide each ship with several hundred kilograms.
JANEWAY: Do it, and check with the Doctor to see if he can spare any medical supplies.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.
LUMAS: Thank you. May the gods smile on you and your crew.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, please escort our guest to the transporter room.

[Corridor]

PARIS: I've never navigated a transwarp conduit. Any problems I should be aware of?
SEVEN: You have no idea what you are doing. If we attempt to enter one, I'll have to take helm control.
PARIS: I am a quick study.
LUMAS: What species is that?
TUVOK: She is a human who lived as a Borg.
LUMAS: Borg!
TUVOK: She is disconnected from the Collective. She won't harm you.
LUMAS: Where's my wife? Where are my children? What did you do with them after you took them? What did you do with my family?
TUVOK: Mister Paris, please proceed.
(Tuvok leads the Caatati one way, Paris and Seven go the other.)
LUMAS: I lost everything. My family, my home.
PARIS: Sorry about that.
SEVEN: About what?
PARIS: Well, the way he reacted to you.
SEVEN: He didn't injure me.
PARIS: Good.
SEVEN: There are many people on this ship who have similar feelings towards me.
PARIS: I'm afraid you're right. Does that bother you?
SEVEN: No.
PARIS: Well, I'm not one of those people. We all have a past. What matters is now.
SEVEN: I'm uncertain what you're trying to say.
PARIS: That if there's any way I can help you adjust to your life here on Voyager, please ask me.
SEVEN: I will remember your offer.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: All systems are ready.
TORRES: We're only going to take a peek. We open a conduit, get as much sensor data as we can, then close it up. I want to take this one step at a time.
VORIK: I've set up a temporary tachyon matrix within the main deflector. It's online.
TORRES: Engineering to the bridge.

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: We're ready to start, Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. We'll monitor your progress from here.

[Engineering]

TORRES: We'll need to be at warp speed to create a large enough subspace field. I'd like to reroute helm control to Engineering.
JANEWAY [OC]: Agreed. Janeway out.
TORRES: Take us past
PARIS: Past warp two. I know. We're at warp two point three.
TORRES: All right. Vorik, start emitting the tachyons.
VORIK: Energising the matrix.
SEVEN: There's no indication of a subspace field. I recommend switching to a higher energy band.
PARIS: That did something.
SEVEN: The subspace field is forming.
TORRES: Tachyon particles are leaking into the propulsion system.
PARIS: Shut down the deflector.
VORIK: Done. But the leak is continuing.
(A console explodes.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES: The tachyons are flooding the warp core, Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: If you can't stabilise the core immediately, evacuate Engineering.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Aye, Captain. I'll get back to you.
VORIK: I've cut all power relays, but the tachyon levels are still rising.
TORRES: All right, everybody out! Now! That means you as well.
SEVEN: I could be of help.
TORRES: That's an order.
PARIS: You can't order me, I outrank you.
TORRES: We've got to neutralise the core.
PARIS: I'll try decoupling the dilithium matrix.
TORRES: No effect. Try it again.
PARIS: It's not working. The core is about to breach!
TORRES: I've got to try one more thing.
PARIS: B'Elanna, there's no more time. We've got to get out of here. Come on.
TORRES: Computer, prepare to eject the warp core. Authorisation Torres omega phi nine three

[Corridor]

TORRES: Computer, eject the warp core. Torres to Janeway.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TORRES: We've dumped the core. Welcome to the worst day of my life.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Vorik, we have to get those impulse engines back online. You and Nicoletti get started.
VORIK: Yes, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: We're stopped dead. The warp core is millions of kilometres away by now, and the impulse engines are seriously damaged. I can give you a few thrusters, but that's about it.
JANEWAY: How long before I can have impulse power?
TORRES: I can't give you an estimate on that. We're still assessing the damage. So much for opening a transwarp conduit. I sent the Borg back to her alcove. We won't be needing her in here any more.
JANEWAY: At least the core's still intact. Tom, take a shuttle and find it. See if you can tractor it back to Voyager.
PARIS: Yes ma'am.
TORRES: It'll be unstable. It should be repaired before he tries to put a tractor beam on it.
JANEWAY: Well then, you go with him. Do whatever you have to. Just get it back here in one piece.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]

TORRES: We're getting near some random ion turbulence.
PARIS: I'll change course to avoid it.
TORRES: I wonder what else can go wrong today. If we get this core back, I'm going right to bed and sleeping straight through till tomorrow. Get this day over with.
PARIS: Well, look at it this way, how much worse could it get? Having to dump the warp core has to be the low point of any day.
TORRES: Maybe it's me. Maybe I'm asking for this trouble somehow.
PARIS: Or maybe it's just a streak of bad luck? Sensors have picked up a polymetallic object. Could be the core.
TORRES: That's the warp signature all right. There's something else out there. A ship. According to sensors it has the same energy signature as the Caatati ships.
PARIS: Maybe they're guarding it for us.
TORRES: Right.
PARIS: I see it. What do they think they're doing?
TORRES: They're trying to put a tractor beam on it.
PARIS: This is the Shuttle Cochrane to the Caatati vessel. Please respond.
LUMAS [OC]: Don't come any closer. We're performing a salvage operation.
PARIS: Oh, what a coincidence. So are we.
LUMAS [OC]: I'm afraid we got here first. Don't interfere or we'll open fire.
TORRES: Don't you realise that core is highly unstable? If you try to tractor it like that you could cause an antimatter explosion.
PARIS: They're not answering.
TORRES: Idiots!
PARIS: We have to stop them from destroying the core.
TORRES: I'm going to try and disrupt their tractor beam.
PARIS: It's working.
(Whumph.)
PARIS: What was that?
TORRES: They sent an antimatter pulse back through our particle beam.
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural integrity field has been compromised. Now at fifty three percent and falling. Hull breach in two minutes twenty seconds.
TORRES: Reroute power from the propulsion and weapons systems.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach in two minutes ten seconds.
PARIS: No effect.
COMPUTER: Warning. The structural integrity field has collapsed. Hull breach in two minutes.
PARIS: We have to get out of here.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach in one minute fifty seconds.
(Torres and Paris break out the environmental suits. The Caatati fly away with the warp core.)
PARIS: Computer, send a distress call to Voyager. Give them our coordinates. Computer, respond.
TORRES: The comm. systems must be down.
PARIS: Transporters are still online. Stand by to energise. Energise.

[Space]

(They watch the Cochrane go KaBOOM! from a safe distance.)
PARIS: Paris to Voyager. Do you read me? Please respond. Paris to Voyager.
TORRES: It's no use. The comm. system in these suits won't carry that far.
PARIS: When they get the impulse engines repaired they'll come looking for us.
TORRES: Well, I don't plan on just drifting here hoping someone will just come along and rescue us. There must be something we can do.
PARIS: Agreed. If we could interplex the comm. systems in both suits we might be able to create a phased carrier wave. Voyager would read the signature and know it's from us.
TORRES: Good idea. Let me access your controls.
PARIS: I thought you'd never ask.
(He pulls on her lifeline to bring her close in.)
TORRES: That's it. This would be a lot easier if I had a hyperspanner. Hold still.
PARIS: Why is it we have to get beamed into space in environmental suits before I can initiate first contact procedures?
TORRES: Why is it that if we're alone for more than thirty seconds you start thinking about contact?
PARIS: Ah, that is not fair. The other day in Engineering I must have gone four minutes before I started thinking about it.
TORRES: Okay, I'm ready to initiate the carrier wave.
(A high pitched buzzing that hurts the ears.)
PARIS: Ah! Ah!
TORRES: Sorry. Better?
PARIS: Yeah. Let's hope it's still that strong by the time it gets to Voyager.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in. Would you like tea or coffee?
SEVEN: I have no need to ingest liquids. I still receive energy from the Borg alcove.
JANEWAY: My understanding is that you're almost ready to begin eating food.
SEVEN: That is what the doctor says. Why have you asked me here?
JANEWAY: Whenever there's an accident on the ship, even a minor one, we investigate it in order to minimise the chances of its happening again.
SEVEN: A prudent course of action.
JANEWAY: I didn't have a chance to talk to Lieutenant Torres before she left the ship, so I wanted to ask you some questions about what happened in Engineering. Sensor logs indicate the tachyons were leaking into the warp core. Do you have any idea how it started?
SEVEN: No. We had reconfigured the deflector shield to emit tachyon bursts. The procedure must have triggered the leak.
JANEWAY: Who was controlling the tachyon bursts?
SEVEN: Ensign Vorik.
JANEWAY: What were you doing?
SEVEN: Monitoring the transwarp frequencies.
JANEWAY: And did you at any time access deflector control?
SEVEN: You believe I'm responsible for the accident. That I deliberately sabotaged the ship. You are like the others, you see me as a threat.
JANEWAY: I won't lie to you. Part of me is suspicious. We've dealt with tachyon fields before and never had this kind of problem.
SEVEN: Captain. I am unaccustomed to deception. Among the Borg it was impossible. There were no lies, no secrets. And I assure you I had nothing to do with the accident in Engineering.
JANEWAY: I believe you. Thank you.
SEVEN: I am finding it a difficult challenge to integrate into this group. It is full of complex social structures that are unfamiliar to me. Compared with the Borg, this crew is inefficient and contentious, but it is capable of surprising acts of compassion.
JANEWAY: Unexpected acts of kindness are common among our group. That's one of the ways we define ourselves.
SEVEN: Is there anything more?
JANEWAY: Yes. We still have to find out what caused the tachyon leak. Tell me what you remember about the power fluctuations in the propulsion system.

[Space]

TORRES: This isn't anything like the simulations we had at the Academy. They felt peaceful, like floating in the womb. But right now I'm feeling a little sick to my stomach.
PARIS: You dropped out too soon. In the third year there's a six week course of actual spacewalks so you can get used to them.
TORRES: I never would have lasted to the third year. If I hadn't dropped out, they would have asked me to leave.
PARIS: I wish I'd known you then.
TORRES: You'd have hated me.
PARIS: I can't imagine a time I wouldn't have found you fascinating.
(A bright light happens nearby.)
PARIS: What the hell was that?
TORRES: More ion turbulence.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at one hundred fourteen millibars.
PARIS: My oxygen supply is leaking.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at ninety three millibars.
TORRES: We'll have to share mine.
(She plugs into his chest unit.)
TORRES: Are you getting air now?
PARIS: Yes. Much better. Thanks. What's wrong?
TORRES: The turbulence must have damaged my suit too. I should have at least twenty four hours worth of oxygen, but there's only about a half hour left.

[Ready room]

VORIK [OC]: Engineering to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Ensign.

[Engineering]

VORIK: I'm pleased to inform you that impulse power should be restored

[Ready Room]

VORIK [OC]: Within the hour.
JANEWAY: Good news. Let me know the minute the engines are online.
VORIK [OC]: Yes, ma'am.
SEVEN: Captain, I believe I've found the cause of the accident. Erratic fluctuations in the ship's warp power. When tachyon levels rose to a resonant frequency, core pressure increased.
JANEWAY: Then it was an accident. Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've picked up a carrier wave with a Starfleet signature. I'd guess it's Tom and B'Elanna, but they're not answering our hails.
JANEWAY: They may be in trouble. As soon as we get impulse power
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to the captain. Can you come to the bridge?
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We're being approached by an armada of Caatati ships.
KIM: They're hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen.
LUMAS [on viewscreen]: Hello, Captain.
JANEWAY: You've brought some friends.
LUMAS [on viewscreen]: Needy friends. We're hoping you will offer us more supplies.
JANEWAY: I made it clear last time that we couldn't possibly you with enough for all your ships.
LUMAS [on viewscreen]: And I had to accept that because your ship is more powerful than ours. But the situation has changed, hasn't it? You seem to be at a disadvantage now. We have your warp core. You can't escape. I'm hoping that'll make you more generous.
JANEWAY: We've given you everything we can spare. Return the core and we'll be on our way.
LUMAS [on viewscreen]: One of our ships might not seem threatening to you, but I assure you, twenty seven can inflict considerable damage. We are desperate. Prepare to send us food, weapons, and your entire supply of thorium. And that Borg you're protecting. We want her too. There are many who'd enjoy a chance to repay one of them for what they did to us.

[Space]

PARIS: I'm lowering the oxygen ratio. That should give us a few more minutes.
TORRES: I'm feeling kind of groggy.
PARIS: Oxygen deprivation.
TORRES: And you're lowering it?
PARIS: We have to try to make it last as long as possible.
TORRES: It's ironic, isn't it.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: Today, the Day of Honour, is the day that I'm going to die.
PARIS: We are not going to die. Would you stop talking like that?
TORRES: We have to face up to it, Tom.
PARIS: There's something I've been wanting to ask you.
TORRES: Well, now's the time.
PARIS: When we first met, you didn't have a very high opinion of me.
TORRES: That's putting it mildly. I thought you were an arrogant, self- absorbed pig.
PARIS: Flattery won't get you any more oxygen. Do you think I've changed?
TORRES: A lot. Now you're a stubborn domineering pig. I'm just kidding. There I go again, just pushing you away. You were right about me. It's what I do, push people away.
PARIS: Well, it's a sure fire way of not getting hurt.
TORRES: What a coward I am.
PARIS: Shush.
(He holds her in his arms.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Our weapons are more powerful than theirs. I say we fight.
KIM: Maybe if we give them something?
JANEWAY: Like what? I can't imagine what would satisfy them now.
SEVEN: I will go. They asked for me. If I surrender myself perhaps they'll let you leave.
JANEWAY: That's very generous, but I will not turn you over to them.
SEVEN: I was only offering to do what would be best for this group.
JANEWAY: You're part of this group now and we're going to protect you. It's time to stop talking about this. Tom and B'Elanna are in trouble and we have to find them. Tuvok, what's the status of our weapons array?
TUVOK: Weapons are at the ready, Captain, but our shield strength is extremely low.
JANEWAY: We'll have to shut down non-essential systems. Reroute power to the shields. We're going to fight.
SEVEN: That might not be necessary. Caatati technology is dependent on thorium isotopes. If they had enough they could become self-sustaining.
KIM: But we don't have that much thorium to give them.
SEVEN: When the Borg assimilated the Caatati, the survivors lost their ability to replicate the isotopes. But I have retained that knowledge. I could design an energy matrix that would produce thorium in large quantities.
CHAKOTAY: If you've had this knowledge all along, why didn't you say so?
SEVEN: I am not accustomed to thinking that way. Borg do not consider giving technology away, only assimilating it.
JANEWAY: And what do you suppose made you consider it now?
SEVEN: I am not certain.
JANEWAY: Maybe it was just an unexpected act of kindness. Work with Vorik to build the energy matrix, while I convince the Caatati there's a better way out of this.

[Science laboratory]

SEVEN: This matrix will produce nine hundred forty four grammes of thorium per day.
JANEWAY: Now you can power all your systems and begin to rebuild your replication technology. Will you allow us to leave?
LUMAS: One device isn't enough for all our ships.
SEVEN: Using this matrix as a template you can construct as many as you like. We can provide you with components and specifications.
LUMAS: You are free to go. And thank you.
SEVEN: You're welcome.

[Space]

COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at one hundred four millibars.
TORRES: Tom. Come on. Open your eyes.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at eighty seven millibars.
PARIS: I was having a dream.
TORRES: There's something I have to say.
PARIS: Me too. I'm glad the last thing I'll see is you.
TORRES: I've been a coward about everything. Everything that really matters.
PARIS: Now you're being a little hard on yourself.
TORRES: No. I'm going to die without a shred of honour. And for the first time in my life that really bothers me. So I have to tell you something. I
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at seventy one millibars.
TORRES: I have to tell you the truth.
PARIS: The truth about what?
TORRES: I love you. Say something.
PARIS: You picked a great time to tell me.
(The sleek shape of an approaching Federation starship is reflected in Torres' helmet.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to Tom Paris. Tom, do you read me? Respond.
PARIS: We're here.
JANEWAY [OC]: Prepare to beam aboard.


S4 E4
Nemesis
Stardate: 51082.4
Original Airdate: 24 September 1997

[Forest - night]
(A pair of men with weapons are tracking something in the dark. They find it.)
NAMON: Don't move.
(It is Chakotay.)

[Camp - night]

(They bring him back to the camp with a gag over his mouth and hands tied behind his back..)
BRONE: What's this?
NAMON: We found him in the trunks, a hundred footfalls past Grove Yellow.
BRONE: Arms?
NAMON: None, sir.
BRONE: These colours?
NAMON: We didn't ask.
BRONE: He's no Krady beast, is he?
NAMON: No, sir, but he doesn't bear Vori colours either.
BRONE: Hmm. His glimpse is too tame to be a Kradin.
NAMON: I hadn't fathomed that, sir.
BRONE: Well, fathom it now. He's no nemesis, is he?
NAMON: I'm not certain what he is, sir.
BRONE: Weren't you drilled to fathom the nemesis?
NAMON: Yes, sir.
BRONE: And we abhor none but the nemesis, do we?
NAMON: No, sir. None but the nemesis!
BRONE: Then set him loose. Didn't you hear, Novice?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks.
BRONE: Go take provisions.
NAMON: I'm sorry, sir.
BRONE: Go.
CHAKOTAY: I take it you're in charge here.
BRONE: Team Leader Brone, Fourth Vori Defence Contingent.
CHAKOTAY: Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager.
BRONE: I'm very sorry for my defenders. They're new to the clash and glimpse the nemesis all around them.
CHAKOTAY: The clash. You're at war?
BRONE: You've strayed into the fullness of it.
CHAKOTAY: That explains why my shuttle came under fire.
BRONE: One of my defenders glimpsed a vessel falling in Grove Yellow. It must have been yours. Why fly so close to this sphere?
CHAKOTAY: I was on a survey mission. I picked up traces of omicron radiation in your atmosphere so I slowed down to take a look. As soon as I did that, I came under attack. I lost helm control and had to make an emergency transport to the surface.
BRONE: It'll be the Kradin that fired at you.
CHAKOTAY: The Kradin?
BRONE: Our nemesis.
CHAKOTAY: I see. Well, I tried to explain that I had no hostile intentions, but they just kept shooting.
BRONE: The nemesis crave supremacy in the air. They fire on any craft that doesn't show Kradin colours.
CHAKOTAY: I tried to contact my ship but my communicator's not working.
BRONE: All dispatching in the clash zone has been suppressed.
CHAKOTAY: I have to find my vessel. Maybe it's salvageable.
BRONE: That's little likely. We're ordered to cluster with the Seventh Contingent two new lights from now. They'll have means to signal your people. You can make the walk with us to meet them.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the offer, but I can't wait two days. I have to find my vessel now.
BRONE: It wouldn't be sharp to return to the trunks. The nemesis is everywhere there.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll have to do my best to steer clear of them.
BRONE: If your tactic won't change.
CHAKOTAY: It won't.
BRONE: It's sharper to wait for the new light.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll take your advice and wait.
(He joins the men by the fire.)
RAFIN: Provisions? It's not so savoury.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks. I'm sure it'll be fine.
RAFIN: They call me Rafin.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay. Pleased to meet you.
RAFIN: In the trunks, did you glimpse any?
CHAKOTAY: Any what?
RAFIN: Krady beasts.
CHAKOTAY: No, I didn't.
NAMON: Rafin's never glimpsed the face of the nemesis either. Have you, Rafin?
RAFIN: No. It's my first walk in the clash zone.
NAMON: You'll glimpse them in the soon after. When you do, you'll fathom there's no heart thumping beneath their flesh. How many beasts will you send to the Wayafter, Rafin?
RAFIN: I couldn't say.
NAMON: Me, I'll nullify one for each brother and cousin that I've lost. And then one more after. True or not, my allies?
ALL: True.
NAMON: So I ask you again, Rafin. How many will you nullify?
RAFIN: As many as I'm able.
NAMON: You've got the trembles. If you don't wrestle your trembles to rages, ally, the nemesis'll nullify you.
CHAKOTAY: This nemesis of yours. Why do you call them beasts?
RAFIN: It's told they all wear the same horrid face. Their flesh is gnarled and blistery like the rotting trunks. Their glimpses flame like fire, And if you dare near enough, their breath stinks of muck.
CHAKOTAY: You know, sometimes people say terrible things about their enemies to make them seem worse than they really are. There might be some young Kradin soldier out there who's more afraid of you than you are of him.
RAFIN: The nemesis wasn't scared to fume my village, nor scared to nullify my cousins and brothers in their sleep. And my old mother's mother, too, who never told an unkind word nor nullified an insect in all her days and nights on this sphere.
CHAKOTAY: That's pretty rough.
RAFIN: And who but a Krady beast would leave the nullified bodies of mine and ours upturned, so they'll never descend to the gloried Wayafter?
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean by upturned?
BRONE: Which of you will walk with Chakotay to find his craft when the new light comes?
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the offer, but I'll be fine on my own.
l BRONE: You don't fathom the trunks and you don't carry arms. One of my defenders will walk with you. Which will it be? You, Rafin.
RAFIN: Sir, I, I
NAMON: I'll walk with the stranger, sir. If any beast comes to clash, I'll nullify the beast.
BRONE: Well told, Namon. Now close your glimpses, defenders, and dream of your sisters and mothers.

[Forest - day]

(Chakotay and Namon are walking.)
NAMON: Have you never nullified another, stranger?
CHAKOTAY: Killing's the worst thing I've ever had to do.
NAMON: Then the nemesis you nullified wasn't half so beastly as the Kradin.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe not.
NAMON: In their glimpsers, we're less than nothing. They flame our homes, take our plantings, make playthings of our sisters. If you were a Vori you'd crave to drive them from this sphere just as I do.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I would, if they did things like that to the people I loved. But on the sphere I come from we try to find other ways to resolve differences. Peaceful solutions, Negotiations.
NAMON: You don't fathom the nemesis.
CHAKOTAY: No. I suppose I don't.
NAMON: Beg the power you believe in that you never will. The light will be old soon. We'd be sharp to cluster with the others.
CHAKOTAY: In a few minutes. We should be getting close.
NAMON: You'd be sharp to do my tellings.
CHAKOTAY: Go back if you want to. I've got to keep looking.
NAMON: No, wait. I pledged to walk with you. Glimpse there.
(A piece of debris on the ground.)
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like there's much left of my shuttle.
NAMON: You'll have to make the walk with us to the Seventh Contingent.
(Two very alien people shoot at Namon, hitting him in the shoulder. He shoots one as he falls. Chakotay knocks the other down and grabs its weapon.)
CHAKOTAY: Don't make me kill you.
(Another Vori does that instead. Brone's team run in.)
CHAKOTAY: How is he?
RAFIN: Nullified.
(Later, the funeral is underway. Namon has been stripped and is covered by a single blanket.)
BRONE: We beg peace from the Power who made us Vori, and we commend our brother, Namon, to the gloried Wayafter.  
(Namon is rolled onto his front and covered in rocks.)
CHAKOTAY: What's this?
BRONE: Namon's coverings.
CHAKOTAY: Shouldn't they go to his family or someone he was close to?
BRONE: It's a long walk to the cluster mark. It's sharper to blend with the trunks. Your fleet colours will get us all nullified.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry about what happened to Namon.
BRONE: The nemesis has nullified mine and ours in the before, and will in the now. But in the soonafter, we'll send them flying from this sphere and go back to our sisters and mothers.
(Chakotay takes the camouflage clothes but not the rifle.)
BRONE: Take it.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't my war. I'm not planning to shoot anybody.
BRONE: If we greet the nemesis in the trunks, you'll fire like the rest. As long as you're with us, you do my tellings. Fathom?
CHAKOTAY: Fathom.
BRONE: Rafin.
RAFIN: Yes, sir.
BRONE: Drill Chakotay to fire Vori arms.
(Now in Vori clothes, Chakotay is shown how to fire at a target.)
RAFIN: Now you. Your glimpse is too low. With these arms it's sharper to aim higher than the mark.
CHAKOTAY: You're good.
(Rafin demonstrates.)
RAFIN: Don't mock me.
CHAKOTAY: I was paying you a compliment.
RAFIN: It is one matter to fire at clay marks, but much another to nullify the nemesis. That's what Namon told, and he told the truth before he went to the gloried Wayafter.
CHAKOTAY: He was right. Killing's not easy.
RAFIN: Risking my own days and nights to drive the nemesis from our sphere. That should be as easy as a long sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Who told you that?
RAFIN: My brothers and uncles who were in the clash. Brone my driller. And Namon, my ally, who was nullified because of me.
CHAKOTAY: You think it's your fault that Namon died?
RAFIN: If I didn't have the coward's trembles, I would have walked with you in the trunks. And it would be me and not he who went to the Wayafter.
CHAKOTAY: You weren't the one who pulled the trigger, Rafin. And there's no shame in being afraid of fighting. Having the trembles is natural.
RAFIN: How do you fathom that?
CHAKOTAY: Because I've been in battle before, fighting to free my people from a nemesis called the Cardassians.
RAFIN: These Cardassians, were they beasts?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say they weren't very friendly. The point is, even though I believed in what we were doing, I always felt fear before a fight.
RAFIN: But you wrestled your trembles to rages, didn't you?
CHAKOTAY: I guess I did, but that doesn't mean
RAFIN: I was told to drill you, Chakotay. But it's you who've drilled me. Drilled me to fathom the rages.
(Rafin hits more clay targets then gives the rifle to Chakotay.)

[Forest - night]

CHAKOTAY: Brone.
BRONE: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
(Brone's rifle light illuminates a Vori tied to the ground, face up.)
BRONE: Neck-strapped and upturned. Left to be cooked by the glare.
CHAKOTAY: He's one of yours?
BRONE: By his coverings he's of the Seventh Contingent. Likely a scout walker.
CHAKOTAY: Desecrated by the Kradin.
RAFIN: He'll never turn his face to the Wayafter.
BRONE: We're three hundred footfalls from the cluster mark. Signal the Seventh. Again.
RAFIN: Why don't they answer?
CHAKOTAY: Is it possible they moved their camp for some reason?
BRONE: Little likely. You two, fast walk to the cluster mark and glimpse what you can.
RAFIN: Sir.
BRONE: What?
RAFIN: Let me go.
BRONE: Well told, Novice. Keep the talk low and your glimpse wide.
(Rafin and his companion return a short time later.)
RAFIN: Sir.
BRONE: What have you glimpsed?
RAFIN: The Seventh Contingent, sir. Nullified.
BRONE: What, all of them?
RAFIN: At least twenty defenders. And that's not the whole telling of it. They're all, they're all
BRONE: Tell it, Rafin. They're all how?
RAFIN: Like him, sir. Upturned. Staked to the dirt up and upturned.
BRONE: Those motherless Krady beasts. Do you glimpse the fullness of it now, stranger?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I think I do.
BRONE: Now you fathom why we name them beasts and not men?
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry.
BRONE: We're much more than sorry, aren't we, defenders?
ALL: Yes, sir!
BRONE: The nemesis wants your plantings.
ALL: True, true.
BRONE: He wants your homes. He wants your sisters. But does it suffice him to nullify you? No. He craves to shame you, mock you, keep you from the gloried Wayafter! We're wearied of it, aren't we?
ALL: Yes sir!
BRONE: We're wrestled to the rages for it, aren't we?
ALL: Yes, sir!
BRONE: And we're not going to swallow it. Not in the now, or in the soonafter!
(Gunfire.)
BRONE: Assault! Apply yourselves and fire back!
(The man next to Rafin is shot.)
RAFIN: Motherless beasts!
CHAKOTAY: Rafin, no! Stay down!
RAFIN: I'll nullify you all!
(Of course, he gets shot.)
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. I'm gonna get you out of here.
(Chakotay starts to drag Rafin, but gets shot in the shoulder.)
RAFIN: Please. Turn my face to the Wayafter.
(Rafin dies, and Chakotay rolls him over. Gunfire sends him into the trees again.)

[Larhana settlement - day]

(Chakotay staggers into a small village, and is seen by an old man.)
PENNO: A defender. Mark, neighbours, a defender!
(A young girls puts a garland around Chakotay's neck.)
KARYA: Welcome to Larhana settlement, gloried defender. You're brightly greeted.
(Chakotay passes out.)

Captain's log, stardate 51082.4. After searching for more than two days we've finally located what's left of Commander Chakotay's shuttle. I can only hope the Commander has fared better than his vessel.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: According to the ambassador, Chakotay's shuttle was hit by enemy fire and crash-landed somewhere on the southernmost continent.
JANEWAY: Right in the middle of the war zone.
TUVOK: I'm afraid so.
JANEWAY: Can we get a lock on him?
KIM: There's too much atmospheric radiation from weapons fire. We can't scan the surface.
TUVOK: Which means we don't know if he's still alive.
JANEWAY: Why don't we assume he still is?
PARIS: I should have gone with him.
JANEWAY: It's not your fault, Tom. We couldn't have anticipated this. What we've got to do now is figure out how to deal with it. B'Elanna, try to modify the scanners. Cut through the interference.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Neelix, what do you know about this war?
NEELIX: It's vicious. Ambassador Treen's people have been defending themselves against a particularly savage aggressor for more than a decade.
JANEWAY: Is the Ambassador willing to help us find Chakotay?
NEELIX: He's willing, but he may not be able.
TUVOK: His resources are extremely limited, and the situation on the surface is chaotic.
NEELIX: But he's assured me that if his troops do find Chakotay, he'll receive medical attention and be transported to the nearest command post.
TORRES: Let's hope he doesn't meet up with these savage aggressors first.
PARIS: Captain, let me lead a team down there and bring him back.
JANEWAY: I understand how you feel, Tom, but let's take it one step at a time. Tuvok, recontact Ambassador Treen. Ask for any tactical support he's willing to provide. Maps, weapons analyses, intelligence reports. Before I risk anyone else's life I want to know exactly what we're getting ourselves into.

[Larhana settlement - night]

PENNO: By your coverings, you're a novice, defender. Do I tell the truth?
CHAKOTAY: Listen, there's been a misunderstanding. I'm not a defender. My shuttle was shot down by the Kradin and I landed in the clash zone. I met up with one of your patrols. They gave me this uniform.
PENNO: Which contingent?
CHAKOTAY: The Fourth.
MARNA: The Fourth? They're sturdy clashers.
PENNO: Tell us, did you and your allies drive the nemesis from the trunks?
CHAKOTAY: We put up a brave fight.
MARNA: Then you're a gloried defender even if you claim not to be.
PENNO: Marna tells the truth, Chakotay. You are welcome among my neighbours.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you. That's very kind.
MARNA: Do you crave anything more? Drink? Warm coverings?
CHAKOTAY: What I really need is some communications equipment to contact my crew.
PENNO: We have no means to signal your people.
MARNA: The Kradin drove us from our homes and plantings, and took all the machinery we had.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know where I might find some place with communications equipment?
PENNO: The restock unit.
CHAKOTAY: Can you tell me how to get there?
PENNO: It's not very near. At least ten thousand footfalls through the thick of the trunks.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'd better get started.
MARNA: The new light is coming. Rest till then.
PENNO: Yes, please, Chakotay. Rest until the new light.
CHAKOTAY: I think I will.
PENNO: Come, neighbours. Let's give defender Chakotay some quiet.
(They leave Chakotay to lie by the fire.)
KARYA: I wanted to know if you crave more.
CHAKOTAY: No, thank you.
KARYA: Oh.
CHAKOTAY: But it was delicious.
KARYA: And the blossoms, do you like them? I planted them myself.
CHAKOTAY: They're very pretty.
KARYA: I've heard tellings that the Kradin leave our nullied defenders upturned. Is it true? You can tell me. Penno says I'm too small to be told, but I'm not.
CHAKOTAY: It's true the Kradin don't respect your beliefs.
KARYA: The Kradin are beasty. I don't fathom why they flamed our homes, nor why they crave to nully us all.
CHAKOTAY: I don't either.
KARYA: We never took their plantings. We never nullied their brothers. So why do they hate us?
CHAKOTAY: I wish I could tell you. Hate's not something I understand very well.
KARYA: My brother's a defender, too.
CHAKOTAY: Really?
KARYA: He left for the clash two plantings before. I was much smaller then. He was sturdy, and pleasing to glimpse in his colours. Like you. Maybe you've glimpsed him. He's called Daryo.
CHAKOTAY: There are a lot of soldiers in the war. I only met a few of them.
KARYA: He's a team leader of the Seventh Defence Contingent.
CHAKOTAY: The Seventh. Are you sure he was with the Seventh?
KARYA: They're very sturdy in the clash. Have you heard of them?
CHAKOTAY: The patrol I was with was supposed to rendezvous with them.
KARYA: Why didn't you? You would have glimpsed him.
CHAKOTAY: We were ambushed before we had the chance.
KARYA: But when you go back to the clash, maybe you'll glimpse Daryo then. You could take a letter to him.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not going back to the clash zone. I've got to get to the restock unit so I can contact my ship.
KARYA: Then you can bring my letter to the restock unit. Maybe some defender there can take it to Daryo. Will you do it? Please? I'll go write it now, before the new light comes.

[Larhana settlement - day]

CHAKOTAY: I wish you a good day.
PENNO: Thank you.
MARNA: Provisions for your long walk.
PENNO: Walk well, defender Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you both. You've all been very kind.
KARYA: Writings for my brother. You'll be sure he gets them?
CHAKOTAY: I'll do my best.
KARYA: Your best will be enough. The pretty smell of the blossoms will hold the nemesis far away.
CHAKOTAY: Then you'd better keep one for yourself.
(He gives Karya a flower then walks off into the forest. He hears the sound of an aircraft then two jets fly overhead towards the settlement. Gunfire and explosions. Chakotay runs back.
The Kradin are rounding up the people. Chakotay takes aim, and a rifle is jammed into his back.)
KRADIN: Offer no opposition, or you will be nullified.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: No evidence of cellular residue on the shuttle wreckage, so there's a chance Chakotay survived the crash.
PARIS: Unfortunately the wreckage was found inside enemy territory,
TUVOK: So there is also a chance he has been captured or killed by the nemesis.
PARIS: There you go looking on the bright side again, Tuvok.
JANEWAY: What's this nemesis?
TUVOK: It is the term Ambassador Treen's people use to identify their enemy.
PARIS: Apparently, they're vicious. They shoot without warning, use biochemical weapons, routinely massacre civilians. If we run into them, it's safe to say they won't be hanging out a welcome sign.
JANEWAY: I want a team on the surface as soon as possible.
PARIS: I was hoping you'd say that. Tuvok, let's get moving.
TUVOK: I must caution you both my tactical analysis does not bode well for the success of such a mission. Given the situation in the battle zone, there is a very high probability that an away team will sustain heavy casualties.
PARIS: Are you saying we should just abandon Chakotay?
TUVOK: On the contrary.
JANEWAY: I suppose you've come up with an alternative plan?
TUVOK: Indeed. I have concluded that the least risky course of action is for a single crew member to make the infiltration, accompanied by a commando unit that Ambassador Treen has agreed to provide.
PARIS: Fine with me. When do I leave?
JANEWAY: Something tells me that's not what Tuvok has in mind.
TUVOK: Naturally, I am the logical person to carry out this mission.
PARIS: Naturally.

[Larhana settlement - night]

(Chakotay is brought in.)
KRADIN: Get down there!
KARYA: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: I heard the explosions, and I came back to help.
KARYA: What did the Kradin do to you?
CHAKOTAY: They interrogated me. Where's your grandfather?
KARYA: I don't know. He's very grey, and his heart's not sturdy. He needs me to tend him.
CHAKOTAY: You. You! I want to talk to your superior. Hey, I'm talking to you! I want to know what you've done to this girl's grandfather. He's old and needs medical atte - Argh!
(The guard  hits Chakotay with his rifle butt.)
KARYA: Chakotay! Penno always tells it'll be brighter when the new light comes.
CHAKOTAY: Your grandfather's a wise man.
(Karya lies down next to Chakotay.)
CHAKOTAY: That's right, get some sleep.
KARYA: You'll tend me, won't you, no matter what comes in the soonafter?
CHAKOTAY: Close your glimpsers, and dream of your gloried brother.

[Larhana settlement - day]

(Chakotay and Karya are woken by gunshots.)
KRADIN [OC]: Come along. Vori. Move along.
KARYA: Where are they taking them?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
MARNA: They'll be fast walked to the extermination facility.
KARYA: Why?
MARNA: Because they're grey and too long-lived the Kradin think them unfit for toiling. They won't make good servers like us.
KRADIN: Offer no resistance.
KARYA: Penno. Penno!
PENNO: Karya!
KARYA: Where are they taking you?
PENNO: Be sturdy, my daughter's daughter.
KARYA: Who's going to tend you?
PENNO: We'll glimpse each other again in the Wayafter.
KARYA: Set him loose!
CHAKOTAY: Karya!
KARYA: Set him loose!
(The Kradin grabs Karya.)
KRADIN: Be still!
CHAKOTAY: Keep your hands off her. Don't touch her!
COMMANDANT: What's the matter, pretty one?
KARYA: Set my mother's father loose.
COMMANDANT: Is that the man you mean?
PENNO: No! Karya!
KARYA: Please, set him loose!
COMMANDANT: You don't want to see him suffer, do you, pretty one?
KARYA: No.
COMMANDANT: Don't worry. The old Vori's suffering will be over soon enough.
KARYA: No! Penno!
COMMANDANT: Take this shrieking waif to the extermination facility.
KARYA: No. Chakotay, set me loose! Chakotay, help me!
(Chakotay breaks free of the Kradin holding him back and leaps onto the Commandant, who is dragging Karya away. He starts pummelling him.)
CHAKOTAY: Motherless beast!
(Another Kradin knocks him out.)

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Are Ambassador Treen and his soldiers ready to beam aboard?
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Energise.
(Three Kradin materialise.)
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard, Ambassador. Thank you for agreeing to help us find our crewman.
TREEN: Your thanks are unnecessary, Captain. Any victim of our bloodthirsty nemesis, the Vori, will always find friends among the Kradin people.

[Forest - day]

(Chakotay has been staked out, face up.)
BRONE: Chakotay. Be calm now. I'll set you loose. Sorry to leave you upturned so long, but I had to shroud myself in the trunks till the Kradin walked on.
(He gives Chakotay water.)
CHAKOTAY: The villagers, from Larhana settlement?
BRONE: They were fast walked through the trunks.
CHAKOTAY: And your defenders?
BRONE: All nullified.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you for coming back for me. You put yourself at risk.
BRONE: And you, Chakotay, clashed beside us against the Kradin though you are a stranger to this sphere. I glimpsed you chancing your days and nights to save Rafin from our nemesis.
CHAKOTAY: You tell the truth when you name them beasts. What will you do now that your men are gone?
BRONE: Join with the Fifth Contingent. They're trying to free the villagers. It doesn't go brightly for them.
CHAKOTAY: I'll come with you.
BRONE: No. I'll bring you to command. You can signal your people.
CHAKOTAY: That can wait till the soonafter. In the now, you need my help to nullify the nemesis.

[Forest - night]

(A gun battle.)
BRONE: Back walk! Back walk! The nemesis is nearing. It's sharper to back walk.
(They retreat into the trees, until they are knocked down by a nearby explosion.)
CHAKOTAY: Brone!
KRADIN [OC]: Vori soldiers! You are surrounded. Lay down your arms and surrender.
(Chakotay shoots at the voice.)
KRADIN [OC]: Hold your fire!
CHAKOTAY: You'll have to nullify me first!
KRADIN: Hold your fire, Commander Chakotay. Do not fire, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know my name?
KRADIN: I am Lieutenant Tuvok,
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok? Don't walk any closer!
KRADIN: I've come to take you back to Voyager.
BRONE: Nullify him, Chakotay. It's a Kradin tactic.
KRADIN: I assure you, Commander, this is no ruse. It is Lieutenant Tuvok. Don't you recognise me?
BRONE: He's the nemesis!
CHAKOTAY: You're a Kradin beast. You destroyed that village, nullified Penno, took away Karya. She was only a child!
KRADIN: They've brainwashed you, Commander. Look closer. Try to recall. Your shuttle was shot down. These people, the Vori, they captured you.
(The Kradin sounds more like Tuvok, but still looks Kradin.)
CHAKOTAY: No, they rescued me.
TUVOK: That is what they want you to believe. They have been indoctrinating you, training you to fight their war.
CHAKOTAY: Take one more step and I'll nullify you.
TUVOK: You are Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager. You are a scientist, an explorer. You are not a killer.
(Chakotay sees Tuvok as he really is, wearing a Kradin uniform.)
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: How can you wear those colours? They're Kradin. They're beasts, murderers.
TUVOK: On the contrary, they are the ones who helped us locate you. We tracked you to a Vori training camp. We infiltrated the facility, but you were gone. They had already brought you here to fight this battle. Before today, nothing you experienced here was real. It is the method the Vori use to conscript and train soldiers.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe you!
TUVOK: I will prove it to you if you will lower your weapon.

[Larhana settlement - day]

TUVOK: Do you recognise this place?
CHAKOTAY: It's Larhana settlement.
(Chakotay walks into the village.)
PENNO: A defender. Mark, neighbours, a defender! Defender. Karya.
(Karya runs up with her garland.)
KARYA: Welcome to Larhana settlement, gloried defender. You are brightly greeted.

Captain's log, stardate 51096.5 Although Lieutenant Tuvok has managed to bring Commander Chakotay safely back to the ship, it may be some time before his psychological wounds are fully healed.

[Sickbay]

EMH: My guess is the Vori used a combination of mind control techniques, including photometric projections, heightened emotional stimuli, and highly sophisticated psychotropic manipulation. From the condition of your hypothalamus, I'd say they had you so mixed up they could have convinced you your own mother was a turnip.
CHAKOTAY: Everything I experienced was some sort of simulation?
JANEWAY: Except for the battle you were fighting when Tuvok found you. Apparently, attacking the simulated Commandant marked your graduation from basic training.
CHAKOTAY: And the men I fought beside, none of them was real? Namon and Rafin weren't killed in front of me?
JANEWAY: As far as we can tell, they were part of the simulation. The idea was to make you bond with your fellow soldiers as well as the villagers, so their deaths would enrage you.
CHAKOTAY: Why me?
JANEWAY: Luck of the draw. You happened to be passing through their space and you were as promising a recruit as anyone else. We've been told the Vori have dozens of these training facilities where they conscript their own people, and any aliens they're able to capture.
EMH: In short, Commander, you've been subjected to a highly sophisticated form of propaganda.
CHAKOTAY: Then the Kradin don't kill innocent civilians? They don't desecrate the Vori's dead?
JANEWAY: I don't know. But the Kradin accuse the Vori of the same kinds of atrocities.
CHAKOTAY: I cared about the Vori, but I hated the Kradin. I wanted to kill every one of them.
JANEWAY: Evidently, that was the point.
NEELIX: Captain. Ambassador Treen would like a word with the Commander.
TREEN: I wish to tell you how pleased my people are to hear of your recovery. I'm only sorry we weren't able to rescue you sooner from our nemesis. Have I said something wrong?
NEELIX: I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: If you'll excuse me, Captain.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I wish it were as easy to stop hating as it was to start.


S4 E5
Revulsion
Stardate: 51186.2
Original Airdate: 1 October 1997

[Command chamber]
(A spaceship is adrift in space. A dead crewman is dragged away by his heels, leaving a smear of blood from the back of his head on the deck. The person doing the dragging has a very pale face. He returns to where the dead man had been and cleans up the blood. Then he flickers, like a hologram, and goes to the command chamber.)
DEJAREN: To any vessels within range. I hope this message reaches you. I'm an HD25 Isomorphic Projection. There's been an accident. My crew is dead. I'm alone. Please, help me.

[Mess hall]

(A dinner party is in progress. The senior staff are at one long table in the centre, other crew at tables around the outside.)
PARIS: So we rigged the security console so that every time Tuvok accessed the internal sensors it would play a little message.
KIM: Live long and prosper.
PARIS: No matter what button he pushed, live long and prosper.
KIM: Naturally, no one was available to fix the malfunction
PARIS: So Tuvok had to stretch his Vulcan patience to the limit for the rest of the day.
KIM: I swear you could hear him grinding his teeth from across the bridge.
PARIS: And just when he thought it was over, when he went back to his quarters and ordered a cup of Vulcan tea, the replicator says
KIM: Live long and prosper!
JANEWAY: The first time I met Tuvok he dressed me down in front of three Starfleet admirals for failing to observe proper tactical procedures during my first command. My human ego took a little bruising, but, of course, he was right. (she stands.) Over the past nine years I've come to rely on his insightful and unfailingly logical advice. For outstanding services, Chief Tactical and Security Officer, it's my pleasure to grant you the rank of Lieutenant Commander. Congratulations, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Thank you, Captain. Had I known this commendation entailed ritual humiliation, I might have declined. However, I accept it with gratitude and will honour the responsibility that comes with it. During my three years on Voyager I have grown to respect a great many of you. Others I have learned to tolerate. As your Tactical Officer, I will continue to do my best to ensure a safe passage home. As a Vulcan, I share the following sentiment. Live long and prosper.
JANEWAY: Bravo. Well deserved.

[Corridor]

PARIS: B'Elanna, this is ridiculous. It's been three days and we haven't said a word to each other.
TORRES: I know, I know. We have to talk.
PARIS: About what you said. I mean, the part about being in love with me. I realise you were suffering from oxygen deprivation and we were literally seconds away from death, so I know you probably didn't mean it.
TORRES: No, no, I meant it. But I don't expect you to reciprocate. Really, you can just pretend that I didn't say it. In fact let's just pretend that I didn't
PARIS: Shut up.
(Paris kisses Torres and she reciprocates, long and hard.)
EMH: Mister Paris, there you are.
TORRES: I was just leaving. Lieutenant.
(Torres leaves, hurridly.)
PARIS: What can I do for you, Doc?
EMH: The Captain has authorised me to recruit someone with advanced medical training to help out in Sickbay. Unfortunately, the most qualified crewmember is you.
PARIS: You want me to be the new nurse?
EMH: If that's the title you prefer. It will only be temporary. Three duty shifts a week. Report to Sickbay and oh six hundred hours. Bring a tricorder and a smile.

[Mess hall]

KIM: What kind of modifications?
CHAKOTAY: We've like to enhance the Astrometrics lab. It hasn't been upgraded since Voyager left spacedock.
KIM: I'll start right away.
CHAKOTAY: I've assigned Seven of Nine to work with you. She's agreed to provide us with all the navigational data for this area she acquired during her time with the Borg. Is there a problem?
KIM: No. No problem.
CHAKOTAY: Try to make her feel like part of the team.
KIM: Right. Part of the team.
JANEWAY: Have you made arrangement for the Arritheans for tomorrow?
NEELIX: The delegate says he's looking forward to trading with such an advanced starship.
JANEWAY: You've done an excellent job preparing for this mission, Neelix. I think you should consider this your first official assignment as Ambassador.
CULHANE [OC]: Ensign Culhane to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CULHANE [OC]: We are receiving an automated distress call five light years from here. You might want to bring the Doctor.

[Bridge]

DEJAREN [on viewscreen]: I'm an HD25 Isomorphic Projection. There's been an accident. My crew is dead. I'm alone. Please, help me.
EMH: He's a hologram. We've got to help him. Ensign, track the source of the transmission.
(Culhane looks to Janeway, who nods.)
EMH: Once we find the ship, I'll lead an away team.
JANEWAY: I don't recall giving you a promotion today.
EMH: Oh. Well, I'm the obvious choice to provide assistance to a holographic being.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I don't want you leaving Voyager unless it's absolutely necessary. I'm still concerned about damaging your mobile emitter.
EMH: I understand. But if this is a hologram, one of my own kind so to speak, I'd like to meet him, study him. I'll bring Lieutenant Torres just to be safe. She knows more about my emitter than anyone.
JANEWAY: The rest of us will meet with the Arritheans. We'll see you there, when you're finished.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.

[Cargo Bay two]

KIM: Seven?
SEVEN: I am here.
(Seven comes down a ladder.)
SEVEN: Am I to work with you?
KIM: Oh, hi. Yes, I thought we'd start in Jefferies tube thirty two B. Enhance the astrometric sensors, if that's okay with you. Unless this is a bad time. Maybe I can come back later.
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, you seem apprehensive.
KIM: No, not at all.
SEVEN: The last time we worked together, I struck you at the base of your skull and attempted to contact the Collective.
KIM: These things happen.
SEVEN: I assure you it will not happen again.
KIM: That's good to know.
SEVEN: I've designed new navigational sensors. Some of the alphanumerics are Borg.
KIM: No problem. I always wanted to learn Borg.
SEVEN: That is difficult to believe.
KIM: I was kidding. It was a joke. You know, humour.
SEVEN: I understand the concept of humour. It may not be apparent, but I am often amused by human behaviour.

[Shuttlecraft]

(The EMH is pacing.)
TORRES: Relax, Doctor. I'm sure we'll find the ship.
EMH: That's not what I'm concerned about. I've been questioning the wisdom of leaving Mister Paris in charge of my Sickbay.
TORRES: Tom will do fine. He's a very responsible guy.
EMH: Well, I suppose you'd know better than I would.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
EMH: You seem to have become good friends.
TORRES: Let's get one thing straight. I don't appreciate you or anyone else speculating about the kind of friendships I have. Or who I have them with.
EMH: Sorry, I didn't realise I'd struck a nerve. Perhaps you'd like a tranquilliser.
TORRES: There it is.
EMH: That's his ship? Try hailing it.
TORRES: No response.
EMH: Lifesigns?
TORRES: A few energy readings, but they're erratic. Propulsion and main power are down.
EMH: We're approaching transporter range.

[Command chamber]

(Torres and the EMH beam in. It is dark and the emergency lights are flickering. They use their wrist beacons. Torres goes to a wall panel and pulls a component out of it then starts pressing buttons.)
EMH: Hello? Is anyone here? We're here to help you.
(Dejaren appears behind him briefly.)
TORRES: No signs of life?
EMH: Not yet.
TORRES: I'd like to check your mobile emitter, make sure you made it through the transport okay.
EMH: For a Klingon, you have a decent bedside manner.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: I wonder what kind of bedside manner Mister Paris will exhibit? That was a rhetorical question, Lieutenant.
(Dejaren advances, hammer in hand.)
TORRES: Your holographic matrix is stable, Let me check your emitter's power cells.
EMH: You might want to consider a career in medicine.
(Dejaren disappears and the hammer drops to the deck with a clang. Torres picks it up.)
TORRES: Where the hell did this come from? (Dejaren appears on the other side of the central command console.)
DEJAREN: Sorry. Sorry, sorry. I didn't mean to frighten you.
EMH: You sent the distress call?
DEJAREN: Yes, yes, that's me. It was me. And you, you're an isomorph like myself?
EMH: We use the term hologram.
DEJAREN: Hologram. And you, you're a hologram too?
TORRES: No.
DEJAREN: You're organic.
TORRES: Ah, that's one way of putting it, yes.
(Dejaren flickers.)
TORRES: It looks like your programme is fairly compatible with our holographic technology. Can you tell me where I can access your projection controls?
DEJAREN: Why?
TORRES: You're obviously malfunctioning. Maybe I can repair you.
DEJAREN: Oh, of course. I'd appreciate that. Over there. You can access my systems from that console.
EMH: What happened here?
DEJAREN: Oh, it was terrible, just terrible. You see, we left Seros eight months ago. Seros, that's our home planet. With a crew of six.
EMH: All isomorphic projections?
DEJAREN: No, just me. I'm an HD25 maintenance unit with extreme hazard clearance. I'm responsible for cleaning the reactor core, ejecting antimatter waste, that sort of thing. When the crew got sick there was nothing I could do. I'm not designed for medical functions. I, I
EMH: Try to calm down. Explain what happened one step at a time.
DEJAREN: Two of the crew members left to survey a planet. When they came back they'd been infected by a deadly virus. It spread quickly to the other organics on board, and one by one, well, I watched them all die. Then things started to malfunction here. I've limited knowledge of the controls. I don't know what I would have done if you hadn't come.
TORRES: I think I've stabilised your programme, but I'll need access to your primary isomatrix. Where is it?
DEJAREN: On the lower deck. You, you shouldn't go down there.
TORRES: Why not?
DEJAREN: Too dangerous. That deck's been flooded with antimatter radiation. Organic flesh would disintegrate within seconds. You can access my isomatrix from this deck. There's an interface junction in that compartment.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: Mind if I run a quick diagnostic?
(The EMH scans Dejaren with his medical tricorder.)
DEJAREN: What's your name?
EMH: I don't have a name. It's a long story.
DEJAREN: I'd like to hear it, and everything else about you.

[Jefferies tube 32B]

SEVEN: I'm ready to supply power to the enhanced sensors.
KIM: What? Already?
(Kim scans the unit.)
SEVEN: Yes. You believe that my work is unsuitable?
KIM: Of course not. Just checking. Standard procedure.
SEVEN: I may no longer possess Borg perfection, but my experience as a drone has taught me to be efficient and precise.
KIM: Actually, you've misaligned this optical assembly.
SEVEN: Impossible.
KIM: Take a look. It's off by point five degrees.
SEVEN: It must have been my humanity reasserting itself. I will correct the error.
KIM: So, what do you do for fun down in Cargo Bay two?
SEVEN: Fun?
KIM: You know. Relaxation, entertainment, during your off hours.
SEVEN: I regenerate in my alcove. I study the Starfleet database, and I contemplate my existence.
KIM: That's a lot of time by yourself.
SEVEN: It is. The optical assembly is properly aligned. I'm ready to access the main power supply.
KIM: After you.
(They go down a ladder to where power cables are running down the wall. Seven reaches towards them and Kim grabs her, pulling her back.)
KIM: Wait! What are you doing? There are five million gigawatts running through there!
SEVEN: The exoskeleton on this limb can withstand it.
KIM: That's all well and good, but there are safety procedures we've got to follow.
SEVEN: Your procedures are a waste of time.
KIM: Maybe so, but you've been assigned to me and I say we do this by the book. All right?
SEVEN: All right.
(Kim takes his hands off her.)
KIM: Well, now that we've got that cleared up.

[Command chamber]

DEJAREN: You can use this emitter to go anywhere?
EMH: Well, my Captain has imposed a few restrictions. But I'm free to leave Sickbay, join away missions, take a stroll.
DEJAREN: Extraordinary. I've never left this vessel before. And until the crew got sick, I ever even left the antimatter storage chamber. Do you know what it's like spend your life trapped inside a tiny room, not knowing what's beyond the door, what the world is really like? Nobody coming to see you or talk to you unless they want something?
EMH: Actually, I know exactly what it's like. When I was first activated I was regarded as little more than a talking tricorder. I had to ask for the privileges I deserved. The right to be included in crew briefings, the ability to turn my programme on and off. It's taken some time, but I believe I've earned the respect of the crew as an equal.
DEJAREN: An equal?
EMH: I've also been pursuing personal interests. Art, literature, music. Perhaps you could do the same.
DEJAREN: Oh, no, no, no. My programmers on Seros would never allow that.
EMH: Then you'll convince them. Maybe they'll appreciate how well you've coped with this situation, how you've managed to find help. Think about it. You've already exceeded the sum of your subroutines.
(The EMH puts his tricorder back in the medkit. Dejaren starts wiping the console.)
EMH: What are you doing?
DEJAREN: Nothing. Er, nothing. I'm just sterilising the ship. I'm fastidious about germs. I know that must sound strange coming from an artificial being.
EMH: Not at all. I've been known to act a little strangely myself.

[Interface junction compartment]

(Torres has a live cable running onto the deck.)
DEJAREN: Hungry? You're organic. You require nutrients. They're only rations but our crew liked them.
TORRES: Careful! That's an isomimetic conduit. You could destabilise your matrix.
(She turns the power off.)
DEJAREN: Of course. How stupid of me. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have barged in here.
TORRES: It's all right. I could use a break. Thank you.
(She tries the rations.)
DEJAREN: You nibble, like a fish.
TORRES: I'll take that as a compliment.
DEJAREN: Oh, it is. I've never seen a fish before, not a real one, but I've read about them on our database. Fish aren't like other organics. They're more passive, I think, most of them. And so clean. Is there anything I can do to help with repairs?
TORRES: As soon as I'm done with lunch, you could help me access your primary matrix.
DEJAREN: Gladly.
TORRES: Is something wrong?
DEJAREN: Seeing the ship ripped apart like this, it's. I, I guess I can't help feeling a kind of affinity for this vessel. It sustains my existence. Sometimes I feel like it's a part of my body, my soul. That probably sounds silly to you.
TORRES: No. No, I understand how you feel.
DEJAREN: You couldn't possibly understand how I feel. You're an organic. You exist apart from your ship. I understand how you feel.
TORRES: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to offend you.
DEJAREN: You're the one who's trapped, not me. You spend your entire life stuck inside a biological cage of flesh and bone and blood.
TORRES: Right. I'm going to go give the Doctor an update.
DEJAREN: I exist as pure energy, but you depend on food and water to survive. Frankly, I find it disgusting. Look at you, Look at you. Grinding up bits of plants and animals with your teeth. Secreting saliva to force it down your oesophagus into a pit of digestive acids. You can't even stand to think about it yourself. What a repulsive creature you are! Constantly shedding your skin and hair, leaving your oily sweat on everything you touch. You think that you are the height of intellect in the universe, but you are no better than any filthy animal and I am ashamed to be made in your image! My apologies. My apologies. I have acquired some hostility towards organics. It was not meant for you. I was treated quite badly by the crew here.
TORRES: I'm sorry to hear that. But you have to realise that we're here to help you. Thanks for the rations.

[Command chamber]

TORRES: We've got a problem.
EMH: Oh?
TORRES: I think there's a problem with our isomorph and I'm not talking about his emitters.
EMH: Explain.
TORRES: I've just spent the last ten minutes hearing his views on biological life. Let's just say they're a bit unconventional. Did you realise that we organics are a bunch of inferior, disgusting animals?
EMH: Now that you mention it.
TORRES: He started ranting about how much he despises organics. I didn't think I was going to get out of there without a fight.
EMH: I will admit he is somewhat socially inept.
TORRES: Inept? He's a lunatic.
EMH: That is hardly a sound medical diagnosis.
TORRES: He has also been lying to us. I just ran a tricorder scan of the lower deck. The one he said was flooded with radiation? Well, it's not.
EMH: Why would he lie about that?
TORRES: I don't know. Maybe he doesn't want us to go down there. Maybe he's hiding something.
EMH: I understand your concerns, Lieutenant. I've been talking to him as well, and I recognise that he has some behavioural difficulties. But imagine what he's been through. Trapped in a room no bigger than a storage compartment. And he's had almost no interaction with organic beings. It's only natural he'd developed problems communicating, even a little resentment. Do you recall my own behaviour when I was first activated?
TORRES: How could I forget? You were a major pain in the
EMH: My point is, I too was somewhat alienated from the rest of the crew. It took me a few days to master the social graces.
TORRES: I realise that he is a fellow hologram and that you are committed to helping him, but I want the ability to shut down his programme if I have to.
EMH: If you really feel that's necessary.
TORRES: I'm going to search the lower deck, see if I can access his primary isomatrix. You keep him occupied until I get back. I don't think he'd appreciate a filthy animal like me snooping around
(Dejaran appears carrying an angular fish bowl.)
DEJAREN: Am I interrupting?
TORRES: No. Actually, I was just leaving.
(Torres leaves.)
DEJAREN: I'd like you to meet someone. Doctor, this is Spectrum.
EMH: A holographic fish?
DEJAREN: Magnificent, isn't he? So peaceful, and so content. I programmed him to keep me company. Don't you have a pet?
EMH: Oh, it wouldn't be appropriate, not in a medical environment.
DEJAREN: They wouldn't let me have one either. I had to hide him.
EMH: He's very lifelike. I didn't realise you had such a talent for holographic design.
DEJAREN: Oh, I've programmed all sorts of things.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven opens a Borg console.)
SEVEN: This node contains Borg navigational data.
KIM: How do we get it out of here?
SEVEN: The proper instrument was part of my thoracic assembly before the Doctor removed it. I suggest a radical dislocation.
KIM: A what?
SEVEN: We need to pull it out. Assist me.
KIM: Okay. On three.
SEVEN: Three?
KIM: On the count of three we pull together.
SEVEN: Crude, but effective.
KIM: One, two, three.
(They pull the node out, but Seven cuts her hand in the process.)
SEVEN: I've been damaged.
KIM: Ooo, that looks pretty bad. You'd better get to Sickbay.
SEVEN: As a drone I would have regenerated within seconds. I've become weak.
KIM: No more than the rest of us. You'll be fine. Come on, I'll walk you there.

[Sickbay]

(Nurse Paris uses the dermal regenerator.)
PARIS: Another half a millimetre and you would have severed the carpal nerve. I'd have had to operate. You're a mere mortal now. As your family doctor, I suggest you be more careful. There, good as new.
KIM: I'll see you back in the Cargo Bay.
(Seven leaves.)
KIM: What kind of bedside manner was that?
PARIS: What are you talking about?
KIM: Can't you see she's feeling vulnerable, and here you are going on about severed nerves and major surgery.
PARIS: Take it easy. I was just trying to lighten the mood. She wasn't upset by it.
KIM: Yes she was. I can see it on her face.

[Doctor's office]

PARIS: You seem a little protective. This morning you were dreading being in the same room with her.
KIM: Well, I've gotten to know her a little better. I don't think most people realise she's not just some Borg automaton. She's actually very complex.
PARIS: Oh, really?
KIM: Yes, she is. She's even got a sense of humour. It's offbeat, a bit subtle maybe, and she's incredibly intelligent.
PARIS: She ought to be. She assimilated enough people.
KIM: See? See what I mean? It's Borg this, Borg that. You can't resist making a joke. There's a woman in there, if you'd take the time to look.
PARIS: Harry, you've got a crush on her, don't you?
KIM: What? No, not at all. Maybe just a little.
PARIS: I've seen this look in your eyes right before you fall head over heels. You always go for the tough ones. What was it last time, a hologram? I don't know much about Borg women, but my advice to you is, don't.
KIM: Just trying to make her feel like part of the team.
PARIS: Part of the team? You sound like Chakotay. Look, she's beautiful, and she's smart, and I'm sure she's a wonderful conversationalist. But a month ago she was Borg. You don't really know who she is. It's great that you're trying to make her feel comfortable. Just be careful.
KIM: Thanks for the advice.
(Kim leaves.)
PARIS: I just hope you take it.

[Command chamber]

EMH: Now that we're clear on the helm controls
DEJAREN: This is a lot to learn.
EMH: You're doing fine. It's vital that you familiarise yourself with all the ship's systems so you can be more self-sufficient. Here are the environmental controls and life support functions.
DEJAREN: Well, I won't need those any more. No crew to worry about.
EMH: Not at the moment.
DEJAREN: Fifty nine point two percent.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
DEJAREN: That's how much power went into life support. Fifty nine point two percent. Just to keep them breathing, warm, comfortable.
EMH: They do require quite a bit of maintenance, don't they?
DEJAREN: I should know. I spent my entire existence cleaning up after them. When they were busy sleeping or reading, or engaging in their slovenly carnal pleasures.
EMH: And this is the sensor grid. You'll find it most useful when you want to scan
DEJAREN: They took advantage of me. I wish I'd been more like you. You showed me that I could be more than a slave to these biological creatures.
(Torres enters the forbidden lower deck and follows her tricorder signals.)
DEJAREN: I'm not taking this ship back to the organics. I won't return to that existence.
EMH: It's a little extreme, don't you think?
DEJAREN: Join me. Leave Voyager. Escape your prison. Together we'll take this vessel and explore the galaxy.

[Projection control]

(Torres calls up Dejaren's schematics.)
TORRES: There you are.
(She powers up the other consoles. They illuminate a head hanging down behind a transparent panel. And it is not the only one.)

[Command chamber]

DEJAREN: Don't look so surprised. You gave me the idea!
EMH: Me?
DEJAREN: You said I should be more self-sufficient.
EMH: I agree that we should be treated equally as members of the crew. But we're still projections of energy and light. We have limitations.
DEJAREN: No! No! No, no, no, no, no! We don't need nourishment, we don't suffer disease. We're the higher form of life.
(Torres triggers an alarm.)
EMH: What's that?
DEJAREN: Lower deck. Someone's trying to access my matrix. I'll be back.
(Dejaran disappears. The EMH runs.)

[Projection control]

(Dejaran appears.)
DEJAREN: You.
(Torres throws a two-fisted punch at him which goes straight through his head. Dejaran thrusts his hand into her chest. She reaches for his matrix controls.)
DEJARAN: No. No!
(Dejaran is switched off just as the EMH arrives. Torres collapses)
EMH: B'Elanna!

Ensign Kim personal log, stardate 51186.2. Working with Seven of Nine is starting to get a little awkward. Tom's right. Anything more than friendship is a bad idea. But I can't stop thinking about her.

[Mess hall]

SEVEN: You wish to see me, Ensign?
KIM: I had this midnight inspiration about reconfiguring astrometric projectors. I hope you weren't regenerating.
SEVEN: I was not.
KIM: This is tricky stuff. It could use your touch. Your way of looking at things. A fresh perspective.
SEVEN: Your data.
(Kim hands her a PADD.)
KIM: Why don't you sit down?
SEVEN: I prefer to stand.
KIM: This could take a while. You'd be more comfortable.
SEVEN: Comfort is irrelevant. We're here to work.
KIM: Okay.
SEVEN: This light is insufficient.
KIM: But it's relaxing, don't you think? After hours, quiet. Voyager isn't all Jefferies tubes and cargo bays, you know. Tell you what, when we're done here, I'll take you to the holodeck. We'll run the Ktarian moonrise simulation. It's beautiful.
SEVEN: Beauty is irrelevant. Unless you wish to change the nature of our affiliation.
KIM: What do you mean?
SEVEN: I may be new to individuality, but I am not ignorant of human behaviour. I've noticed your attempts to engage me in idle conversation, and I see the way your pupils dilate when you look at my body.
KIM: I don't know what you're talking about.
SEVEN: Obviously you've suggested a visit to the holodeck in the hopes of creating a romantic mood. Are you in love with me, Ensign?
KIM: Well, no.
SEVEN: Then you wish to copulate?
KIM: No! I mean. I, I don't know what I mean.
SEVEN: All of these elaborate rituals of deception. I didn't realise becoming human again would be such a challenge. Sexuality is particularly complex. As Borg we had no need for seduction, no time for single cell fertilisation. We saw a species we wanted and we assimilated it. Nevertheless, I am willing to explore my humanity. Take off your clothes.
KIM: Er, Seven.
SEVEN: Don't be alarmed. I won't hurt you.
KIM: Look, this is a little sudden. I was just trying to. Part of the team, you know? Maybe we should just quit for now.
SEVEN: All right. Let me know when you wish to resume our work.

[Projection control]

(The EMH wakes Torres with a hypospray.)
EMH: It's all right, B'Elanna. You're safe.
TORRES: The isomorph?
EMH: Apparently you deactivated him.
TORRES: I took all of his emitters offline.
EMH: Not a moment too soon. I found six corpses on this deck, all of them murdered. You almost became number seven.
TORRES: Ah! Oh, what did he do to me?
EMH: He reached inside your chest, grabbed your heart, and perforated your fourth ventricle.
TORRES: Great.
EMH: I've stabilised your pericardium, but I'm concerned about the internal bleeding.
TORRES: Prognosis?
EMH: Less than stellar unless I can get you back to Voyager. Unfortunately I'm having trouble accessing our transporters.
TORRES: He must have disabled our comm. link to the shuttle. Help me get to the command chamber.

[Command chamber]

TORRES: Looks like he set up a dampening field. I think I can cut through it, but I'll need to open this control panel. My engineering kit, it's on that console.
EMH: B'Elanna, I thought you said you took all the emitters offline.
TORRES: I did. Why?
(Because Spectrum the fish is still swimming in his bowl.)
EMH: I think you'd better double-check.
(The sound of Torres falling to the floor. Dejaran is standing over her with a hammer.)
DEJAREN: You said you'd help me.
EMH: Put that down.
DEJAREN: You lied. You lied to me. I thought you were my friend.
EMH: It's for your own benefit. Someone needs to repair your programme. It's malfunctioning. You're unstable.
DEJAREN: No, no, no! You're unstable. You're a hologram who thinks like an organic.
(Dejaren swings the hammer at the EMH. It goes through him, of course. The EMH throws his medkit through Dejaren.)
EMH: This could get tedious.
(Dejaren's next swing hits his mobile emitter. The EMH deactivates and it falls to the deck. Dejaren picks it up. Torres stirs. She has a bad cut on her forehead.)
DEJAREN: Freedom. Oh, you're getting blood everywhere. I'm going to have to deactivate you. (He backs Torres into a corner and swings the hammer. She dodges underneath it and goes into the interface junction compartment. She closes the door, but Dejaran walks through it. Torres crawls backwards and activates the isomimetic conduit lying on the floor. She jabs it into Dejaran and it stays there until he finishes decompiling. A little later, she reactivates the EMH whilst sitting on the deck.)
EMH: Is he?
TORRES: Deactivated.
EMH: And you?
TORRES: Ready to get out of here.

[Chakotay's office]

(Chakotay gets himself a glass of water and puts it on the control section of his desk. Nothing happens when it touches the buttons. Not that we see, anyway. The doorbell rings.)
CHAKOTAY: Come in.
KIM: We've completed the schematics for the Astrometrics lab.
CHAKOTAY: Already? You and Seven must have been putting in a lot of extra hours on this.
KIM: She's not much for procrastinating.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure she's not. Looks like you're ready to begin construction.
KIM: It might be better, more practical, to bring in an engineering team for that.
CHAKOTAY: Recruit all the help you need.
KIM: In fact, they should probably take over at this point.
CHAKOTAY: Don't you want to supervise their work? The Astrometrics lab is your baby.
KIM: I would, of course. Er, I just don't think that would be the best use of ship's personnel.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, I can rearrange the duty shifts.
KIM: Oh, no, Commander, you don't have to do that. I'm sure Seven can handle things without me.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, are you having some kind of problem with her?
KIM: No, no problem.
CHAKOTAY: Because if you are, I'd like to hear about it.
KIM: No sir, there's no problem. Not at all. Absolutely not. Er, so if you'll excuse me, I'll be going now.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kim. Let's have it.
KIM: We had a misunderstanding.
CHAKOTAY: About?
KIM: It's nothing really important. Just your basic Borg - human cultural differences.
CHAKOTAY: Really? That's not what she says.
KIM: You, you, you spoke, you spoke to her?
CHAKOTAY: She seems to think you're making good progress. She finds you reasonably efficient, and says you've been helping her learn more about our complex social interactions. Any idea what she meant by that?
KIM: Can't imagine.
CHAKOTAY: You two make a good team. I want to keep you together on this project.
KIM: Sir. Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: And maybe others in the future. Have fun.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've stopped the internal bleeding, and repaired the tissue damage. Your pericardium is clean as a whistle. Which is more than I can say for my Sickbay.
PARIS: I'm sorry about the mess. I haven't had time to clean up. It was a hectic day. I treated two broken bones, an upset stomach and a lacerated hand.
TORRES: Does this mean you're too tired to meet later, in my quarters?
PARIS: Are you sure your heart can take it?
EMH: I'm detecting elevated hormonal levels. If you two don't take it easy, I'll have to declare a medical emergency.
PARIS: If you'll excuse me, I have to go check on Harry. I hear he's having a nervous breakdown. It's a long story.
EMH: Not so fast, Mister Paris. You are going to help me sterilise every square millimetre of this Sickbay. No doubt you've left your oily residue on every hypospray, your sloughed secretions on every console. Just kidding. In fact, I've had a change of heart about my fastidiousness. A little clutter never hurt anyone. (he drops the hypospray) Sickbay should have a more organic touch, don't you think? To help our patients feel more at home.
(The EMH goes into his office.)
PARIS: What's gotten into him?
TORRES: It's a long story.


S4 E6
The Raven
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 8 October 1997

[Holodeck - Da Vinci Workshop]
(In the absence of the Maestro, Katarina is giving a sculpting lesson to her protégé. Leonardo's works in progress include La Gioconda and Virgin and Child with St Anne. A bust is on a stand. Seven has swapped her silver skin for a softer looking brown catsuit.)
JANEWAY: It's not as difficult as it looks. The first rule is, don't be afraid of the clay.
SEVEN: I fear nothing.
JANEWAY: I mean you can't concern yourself with making a mistake, or whether the image you had in your mind is what's taking form in front of you. You just have to let your hands and the clay do the work. Here.
(Janeway gives Seven some clay.)
JANEWAY: Go ahead. I think the nose could be a little stronger.
(Seven puts the lump on top of the existing nose.)
JANEWAY: Well, that's a start. Keep going.
(Seven prods at the added lump.)
SEVEN: This activity is truly unproductive. The end result has no use. No necessary task has been accomplished. Time has been expended. Nothing more.
JANEWAY: That depends on how you look at it, doesn't it? I find sculpting helps me unwind, relax.
SEVEN: The concept of relaxation is difficult for me to understand. As a Borg, my time was spent working at a specific task. When it was completed, I was assigned another. It was efficient.
(Janeway sorts out the nose herself.)
JANEWAY: So is this. It helps my own efficiency to forget about Voyager for a while. I'd be embarrassed to show Maestro Leonardo something like this but I get a great deal of pleasure in working the clay, in creating something.
SEVEN: But why here, in this simulation? Among these archaic objects and this disorganised environment.
JANEWAY: Frankly, it's refreshing to take myself out of the twenty fourth century every now and then. And a little disorganisation can be very encouraging to the imagination. You might want to try it sometime.
SEVEN: Are you suggesting that I create one of these holodeck programmes?
JANEWAY: You might find it interesting. It's a way of exploring aspects of yourself that probably didn't fit into your life as a Borg. Imagination, creativity, fantasy.
SEVEN: I am uncertain why those things are necessary.
JANEWAY: They aren't necessary, Seven. But they're an important part of one's life, because imagination frees the mind. It inspires ideas and solutions, and it can provide a great deal of pleasure. Human progress, the human mind itself, couldn't exist without them. When I was a child, I studied these drawings. I even built some of these models. Da Vinci was always a great inspiration to me.
SEVEN: He was a very busy man.
JANEWAY: Oh, yes. A prolific artist, and a scientist as well. Far, far ahead of his time. That design, for example. He conceived of an airplane centuries before one was actually built. Seven?
(Seven looks at the bird-like structure hanging from the ceiling, and has a vision.)

[Borg vessel]

(Adult Seven is pushing her way through drones.)
BORG [OC]: You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile. Your distinctiveness will be added to our own.
FATHER [OC]: Annika!
BORG [OC]: You will be assimilated. You will be assimilated.
(She is being pursued by a raven.)

[Holodeck - Da Vinci Workshop]

JANEWAY: Seven? What is it?
SEVEN: I don't know.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: It's happened three times now in different locations, at different times of the day. I experience a series of disjointed images in my mind.
EMH: Can you be more specific? Were these hallucinations?
SEVEN: I don't know. I've never hallucinated. It's as if I were aboard a Borg vessel, but I was frightened. I felt fear. Each experience is similar. I'm being pursued by the Borg. They want to assimilate me. I'm running from them, and then, and then, each time I see a bird.
JANEWAY: A bird?
SEVEN: Yes. A large black bird, flying toward me, shrieking, attacking me.
EMH: Hmm. Your hippocampus is in a state of agitation.
SEVEN: What does that mean?
EMH: As your human physiology continues to reassert itself, psychological symptoms are bound to manifest in a variety of ways. Through dreams, hallucinations, hypnogogic regression.
SEVEN: Hypnogogic regression?
EMH: Flashbacks. You could be experiencing some sort of post-traumatic stress disorder.
JANEWAY: Makes sense. You were assimilated by the Borg. You've gone through an intense, prolonged trauma.
SEVEN: I was not traumatised. I was raised by the Borg. I don't see them as threatening. Why would I experience fear?
EMH: I don't know.
SEVEN: Will I keep having these flashbacks?
EMH: I'll need to study your neural scans further. In the meantime, your digestive system is fully functional. Now is as good a time as any for you to begin taking solid and liquid nutrients.
SEVEN: Oral consumption is inefficient.
EMH: And unnecessary, if you're lucky enough to be a hologram. But your human physiology requires it. I'll draw up a list of nutritional requirements. Take it to Mister Neelix in the mess hall. I hesitate to inflict his cooking on you but it'll have to do.
SEVEN: I do not enjoy this sensation. Something is happening to me and I don't know what it is. It's as though I'm being driven somehow.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Our guests have arrived. They're being escorted to the briefing room.
JANEWAY: On my way. Representatives of the B'omar. I've been trying to negotiate passage through their space but so far they've been difficult to deal with. I hope they've had a change of heart.
SEVEN: I'll stay here and wait for the Doctor's instructions.
JANEWAY: We'll help you through this, Seven. You'll be all right.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Have you had a chance to consider our request?
GAUMAN: Congratulations, Captain. Against our better judgment the B'omar Sovereignty has agreed to grant your vessel passage through our territory.
JANEWAY: On behalf of my crew, thank you. That will cut three months off our journey.
GAUMAN: However, there are a few stipulations. Guidelines that you must adhere to.
JANEWAY: You'll have our complete cooperation.
GAUMAN: We expect nothing less. While in our space, your vessel will not exceed warp three, and your weapons systems will remain offline. You will avoid unnecessary scans and you will not conduct surveys of any kind. You will make no attempt to explore our space and you will avoid all communications with non-military craft.
DUMAH: We've also plotted the course your vessel is to follow.
PARIS: It'll take us weeks to follow that course.
(The course on the screen is more like a meandering river in a flood plain.)
CHAKOTAY: If not months.
DUMAH: We've designed this course so your ship would avoid our populated systems and industrial areas. Deviation is not recommended.
GAUMAN: There are a total of seventeen checkpoints where you will submit your vessel for inspection.
JANEWAY: Chancellor Gauman, if I may interrupt? I appreciate your efforts in plotting this flight plan, but if we could, I'd like to negotiate a course that's a little more direct.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix is chopping vegetables when Seven enters.)
NEELIX: Well. What an unexpected pleasure. Welcome to the mess hall. Would you like me to show you around?
SEVEN: My physiology has reasserted the need to process solid nutrients. The Doctor has prepared a list of dietary requirements. You will provide them for me.
NEELIX: Let's see what we have here. Ah, two hundred fifty grams glycoproteins consisting of fifty hree percent polypeptides and twenty six percent fibrous glycogen. Urgh, doesn't sound very appetising. However, a plate of my chadre'kab should satisfy most of these essentials while providing a pleasurable culinary experience at the same time.
SEVEN: Pleasure is irrelevant.
NEELIX: Well, I beg to differ. A good meal involves much more than simply providing the proper nutrients.
SEVEN: Why is that?
NEELIX: Well, er, there's a certain satisfaction that comes from eating food that's been carefully prepared. I'm sure once you try it, you'll understand. Now, how would you like your chadre'kab? Boiled? Baked? Stir fried?
SEVEN: Preparation is irrelevant.
NEELIX: Is irrelevant. Maybe, maybe not. This is the first time ingesting food for you for quite a while. Er, we'll go a little easy on your stomach. Steamed.
(Neelix puts the yellow lumps into a hot wok.)
NEELIX: Yes, this, er this recipe has been in my family for generations. It's considered a delicacy among my people.
SEVEN: You are Talaxian.
NEELIX: Guilty as charged.
SEVEN: Species two one eight.
NEELIX: What? Oh, I suppose so.
SEVEN: Your biological and technological distinctiveness was added to our own.
NEELIX: I hadn't realised that.
SEVEN: A small freighter containing a crew of thirty nine taken in the Dalmine Sector. They were easily assimilated. Their dense musculature made them excellent drones.
NEELIX: Well, lucky for you, I guess.
(He spoons the heated food onto a plate.)
NEELIX: Your nutrients. Follow me.
(Neelix places the plate, a small vase of flowers and cutlery on a table.)
NEELIX: Please.
SEVEN: Please what?
NEELIX: It's customary to sit while eating.
(Neelix slides the chair under her as she sits.)
NEELIX: Is something wrong?
SEVEN: I am unaccustomed to this. Borg do not sit.
NEELIX: Well, this is a day of firsts, then, isn't it?
(He puts a napkin across her lap and sits down opposite.)
NEELIX: Now. Take a bite. Try that one. Just kind of er, scoop some up. That's the way. Right into your mouth. Just like a little scout ship flying into a shuttlebay. Take it out, but keep your mouth closed. That's it. Now chew. Chew, chew, chew, chew. And swallow. Swallow. (Gulp)
SEVEN: A curious sensation.
NEELIX: You'll get used to it. Have some more. May I bring you something else? A soothing cup of tea perhaps?
(Seven has a vision of a screaming Borg. A Borg implant erupts onto her right hand.)
SEVEN: You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
(She gets up and pushes Neelix onto the deck before walking out.)
CREWWOMAN: Did you see that?

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: What about this course? It's a marginal adjustment. The nearest populated system is more than three light years away.
GAUMAN: Definitely not. You'd pass directly through the Agrat-mot Nebula. A key resource in our trade negotiations with the Nassordin.
PARIS: I could chart the nebula, try to avoid any
DUMAH: No, no. Are your translators malfunctioning?
TUVOK [OC]: Captain Janeway to the bridge.
JANEWAY: If you'll excuse me.

[Bridge]

(They are at Red alert.)
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I've received an alert from Security. Seven of Nine attacked Neelix in the mess hall and three other crewmen on deck two.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine. Seven, if you can hear me, respond.
CHAKOTAY: What's her location?
TUVOK: Deck six, section twenty eight alpha.
CHAKOTAY: Take a security team.
GAUMAN: Captain, what is happening here?
JANEWAY: I wish I knew, Chancellor. Chakotay, seal off deck six.

[Corridor]

BORG [OC]: Seven of Nine.
(Seven sees two drones walking towards her. They are really security officers, and they try to stun her, but without effect. She walks on.)

[Bridge]

CREWMAN [OC]: Security to the Bridge. We've just seen Seven of Nine. Her Borg shields are fully operational and they've adapted to our phasers.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Bridge to all security personnel. Configure your weapons to a rotating modulation, but keep them on stun.
GAUMAN: Borg. You have Borg on your ship?
JANEWAY: It's not what you think. She is a member of my crew. We liberated her from the Collective. She's no longer a Borg.
GAUMAN: Then why is she equipped with Borg shields?
JANEWAY: I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: She's able to cross through the security fields. She's entering the armoury on deck six.

[Turbolift]

(Seven has got herself a phaser rifle.)
SEVEN: Deck ten.

[Bridge]

KIM: She's in a turbolift.
JANEWAY: Cut power to the turboshafts.
KIM: She's blocking my commands with a Borg encryption code.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Seven's apparently headed for deck ten. Can you get there before she does?
TUVOK [OC]: I'm moving into position now, Captain.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: We'll take position here.
(Seven steps out of the turbolift.)
TUVOK: Lower your weapon and stand down. Fire.
(No effect. She shoots at all three of them.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to bridge. We were unsuccessful.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: I have wounded. She's moving toward junction thirty two alpha.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: The shuttlebay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm erecting a forcefield. Harry, reroute all available power to deck ten.
KIM: Done.
(Seven cannot get through the forcefield across the shuttlebay access doors.)
KIM: She's accessing transporter control.
CHAKOTAY: She used a site to site transport. She's in a shuttlecraft. Powering engines.
JANEWAY: Seal the launch doors.
(The shuttlecraft smashes through them.)
JANEWAY: Tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: No effect. She's remodulated the shuttle's shield harmonics.
KIM: Captain, Seven's headed directly into B'omar space. She's gone to warp.
PARIS: She's masked the shuttle's ion trail. I've lost her signal. She's gone.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: We'll do everything in our power to find her, but we will need permission to enter B'omar space to track her shuttle effectively.
GAUMAN: Let's tally the events, shall we? First, you arrive uninvited and unwelcome, requesting a shortcut through our space. Then you proceed to unleash some sort of rogue Borg and now you want us to help you get it back.
JANEWAY: I apologise for what's happened here, but we certainly didn't unleash anyone. We can resolve this situation quickly, gentlemen, if we work together.
GAUMAN: Captain Janeway, after what I've seen here, I question your competence.
JANEWAY: May I remind you that you're still on my ship.
DUMAH: And you are one vessel among many of ours.
GAUMAN: Your Borg will be dealt with quickly and efficiently. It's being tracked as we speak.
CHAKOTAY: Tracked? How?
DUMAH: Every vessel, every object, every particle of dust that crosses our borders is immediately identified and traced by our perimeter grid.
GAUMAN: The Borg will be found and destroyed.
JANEWAY: Chancellor.
GAUMAN: There will be no sharing of information. From this point on, your vessel will maintain a distance of at least five light years from our borders. Any deviation will be considered an act of aggression.
JANEWAY: Commander, escort our guests to the transporter room.

Captain's log, supplemental. I've assembled a team to analyse every square metre of the cargo bay. This has essentially been her quarters for the last two months, and I'm determined to find something here that might shed light on Seven of Nine's actions.

[Cargo Bay two]

TORRES: You're taking this kind of hard, aren't you?
KIM: What's that supposed to mean? We had a working relationship.
TORRES: Well, what's that supposed to mean.
KIM: It's not what you're thinking.
TORRES: What am I thinking, Harry?
KIM: Never mind.
(Torres scans Seven's alcove, then removes a component.)
TORRES: Take a look at this.
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: Anything?
TORRES: It's a Borg datalink. It contains a succession of log entries written in Borg alphanumeric code.
KIM: I'm getting pretty good with the Borg language. I think I can translate them.
JANEWAY: Get on it.
CHAKOTAY: It seems we've made quite an impression on the B'omar. In the last hour, they've doubled the number of ships patrolling their borders and they've increased the sensitivity of the perimeter grid by thirty six percent.
JANEWAY: So much for diplomacy.
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor analysed the data from Seven of Nine's last transport. He's found something he wants us to see. Maybe this was inevitable. Even if Seven did want to stay on Voyager her Borg nature may have won out. We can remove implant after implant, but, maybe at her core, she'll always be part of the Collective.
JANEWAY: No. I won't accept that.

[Turbolift]

JANEWAY: Deck five. She was responding to us. Interacting with people outside the Collective for the first time. She was adapting to this environment and to this crew. But where is she going? We've scanned space for a distance of forty light years. We've found no evidence of Borg ships, so she can't be trying to rejoin the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: She may plan to take the shuttle back to Borg space.
JANEWAY: Ten thousand light years from here? I don't think so, no. Something else going on. We're missing a piece of the puzzle.
CHAKOTAY: In the meantime, the B'omar intend to find her. And if they do, she'll probably resist them.
JANEWAY: One more reason for us to find her first.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: What have you found, Doctor?
EMH: Something most peculiar. This graphic represents the matter conversion data from Seven of Nine's last transport. If you'll notice, there's a high concentration of Borg organelles in the bone marrow and lymphatic tissue. The dormant nanoprobes in Seven of Nine's cells have reasserted themselves, taken over blood cell production and they're growing new Borg implants. Thirteen percent of the Borg technology I removed three weeks ago has regenerated in a matter of hours.
CHAKOTAY: You said the nanoprobes in her bloodstream were dormant. What reactivated them?
EMH: I don't know, but I've developed a way to stop the process. This hypospray contains a genetic resequencing vector. It should neutralise the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: That means someone needs to get close enough to do it.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We've analysed the B'omar perimeter grid. It's sophisticated, but not without its vulnerabilities. It might be possible to penetrate the grid by re-calibrating our shields to match its frequency.
PARIS: The trick is going to be our energy signature. Voyager's too big to hide, but a shuttlecraft with the proper shield modulation and its engines powered down could drift right through without so much as a peep.
JANEWAY: Nice work, gentlemen. Proceed. The Doctor's genetic resequencer. It should keep her sedated until you get back to the ship. Once you've penetrated the perimeter, there will be no further communication with Voyager. You'll be on your own.
TUVOK: Captain, it is possible that Seven will adapt to the resequencer.
JANEWAY: I know. If it fails and you're unable to reason with her, you have my authorisation to stop her with any force necessary.
TUVOK: Understood.

[The Raven]

(Seven has a flashback to when the Borg came aboard her parent's vessel and she was a little girl hiding under a bank of consoles.)
BORG [OC]: Seven of Nine, grid nine two of subjunction twelve. You will be assimilated.

[Seven's shuttlecraft]

DUMAH [OC]: Borg drone, you have committed an infraction against the B'omar Sovereignty.

[B'omar vessel]

DUMAH: Cut power to your engines and lower your shields. Prepare to be boarded. You will proceed no further. We will not
(Seven fires at his vessel and bounces off it. She does this several times before her shuttle is hit from astern.)

[Paris's shuttlecraft]

TUVOK: I'm detecting weapons signatures. Federation and B'omar. Five B'omar vessels are adrift, heavily damaged. Lifesigns are stable.
PARIS: I've located Seven's shuttle. It's two point five million kilometres from here.
TUVOK: Adjust course to intercept.
(They catch up to the smaller shuttlecraft.)
PARIS: The implants in Seven's body are disrupting the transporter signal. I can't get a lock.
TUVOK: See if you can remodulate our transporters to match her shields
PARIS: You want to beam in there?
TUVOK: Yes.
PARIS: I'm not sure that's a good idea, Tuvok. Closed quartesr, Borg against Vulcan? No offence, but you won't stand a chance if she decides to put up a fight.
TUVOK: It's my hope that the element of surprise will work in my favour. Do you have a better idea?
PARIS: Come to think of it, no. She's charging weapons.
TUVOK: Set my coordinates for the aft compartment.
PARIS: Ready.
TUVOK: Energise.
(Tuvok beams over, but Seven is waiting for him. They struggle, then she uses the Vulcan neck-pinch on him.)
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok, give me a sign.
(Whumph! Seven fires at the shuttlecraft several times.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion systems are offline.
PARIS: Damn!

[Seven's shuttlecraft]

(Tuvok wakes.)
SEVEN: It's a level five forcefield, Lieutenant. I suggest you be more careful.
TUVOK: Why have you left Voyager?
SEVEN: I am Borg.
TUVOK: You were Borg, but you're human, now. You're part of our crew.
SEVEN: For a brief time I was human. But I have come to realise that I am Borg. I will always be Borg.
TUVOK: What prompted this realisation?
SEVEN: Every Borg ship is coded to emit a distinct resonance frequency to guide drones who become separated from the Collective.
TUVOK: A homing beacon.
SEVEN: Yes. I am following a signal. A Borg vessel is waiting for me.
TUVOK: We've scanned this entire region for Borg. There are none.
SEVEN: You're wrong. They are here. Vulcan. Species three two five nine. Your enlarged neocortex produces superior analytical abilities. Your distinctiveness will be added to our
TUVOK: Seven?
SEVEN: No. I will not assimilate you. Once I return to the Collective, you will go back to Voyager and tell Captain Janeway what's happened to me. Thank her for her patience, for her kindness.
TUVOK: Curious. Your behaviour demonstrates affection and sentiment. Traits of humanity. Hardly Borg. You have been experiencing hallucinations, flashbacks.
SEVEN: Yes.
TUVOK: Does that usually occur when a resonance signal is activated?
SEVEN: No.
(The raven is watching her.)
BORG [OC]: Seven of Nine, grid nine two of subjunction twelve.
SEVEN: But I can hear them calling me. I'm frightened
TUVOK: That's understandable. Lower the forcefield. We can return to Voyager and find out what's happening to you. I am your shipmate. We can return to Voyager together.
SEVEN: I must rejoin the Collective.

Captain's log, supplemental. I've been trying to retrace Seven of Nine's footsteps, her actions during the last few days, but I'm still no closer to understanding what's happened.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Janeway is in Seven's regeneration alcove.)
KIM: Captain? Am I disturbing you?
JANEWAY: Not at all, Harry.
KIM: I've managed to decipher Seven's log entries.
JANEWAY: And?
KIM: There's nothing that indicates she was planning to leave the ship. The entries are pretty unremarkable. She describes her daily routines, number of hours spent regenerating, that sort of thing. There were some personal log entries, mostly observations about the crew's behaviour. I'm mentioned in quite a few of them. Apparently, she finds my behaviour easy to predict, whatever that means.
JANEWAY: Don't take it personally coming from Seven, that's probably a compliment.
KIM: The most recent entries are kind of strange. Descriptions of bizarre images, almost like a record of her dreams.
JANEWAY: The hallucinations.
KIM: Maybe so. Sometimes she's in a Borg vessel, running or hiding behind a bulkhead, falling down a shaft. Borg everywhere, chasing her. Nightmarish stuff.
JANEWAY: What about this bird?
KIM: She mentions it several times. It flies at her, shrieking. I don't know what it means.
JANEWAY: The feathers are black, wingspan approximately one half metre. The eyes are yellow and it has a powerful triangular beak. When it looks at me, I am paralysed. I cannot move. It seems to know me, but I don't understand how that's possible. It's merely a bird, an inferior form of life, but the sight of it fills me with fear. It sounds like she's describing a member of the corvidae family like a crow, or a raven. She's describing a raven.
KIM: Why is that important?
JANEWAY: Because now I know what to look for.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Chakotay, calibrate our long range sensors to scan for any Federation signature other than our two shuttlecraft.
CHAKOTAY: Captain ?
JANEWAY: Do it. Bring the ship about, Ensign, and lay in a course for B'omar space.
(There is a female Ensign at the helm.)
ENSIGN: Aye, Captain.

[Seven's shuttlecraft]

(Seven has arrived at a planet with a moon.)
SEVEN: The resonance signal is coming from the lunar surface. The Borg are waiting for me there. I don't know why I'm frightened. They are my people.
TUVOK: If you're afraid, then leave this place.
SEVEN: Once I've been reintegrated into the Collective, my fears will disappear.
TUVOK: Deactivate the forcefield. I will accompany you to the surface. You don't need to go alone.
SEVEN: You would be assimilated.
TUVOK: I don't believe so. I think this situation is not what it appears.
SEVEN: What do you mean? What else could it be?
TUVOK: I am uncertain, but I am willing to go to the surface with you to find out.
(Seven lowers the forcefield.)

[Paris' shuttlecraft]

JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to Paris.
PARIS: Paris here, Captain. Glad to hear your voice. Tuvok is with Seven of Nine. I haven't been able to establish communication with him since he transported to her shuttle. I've tracked them to an M class moon orbiting the fifth planet of a yellow dwarf star.

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: I'm picking up an unusual resonance signal from the surface. It's erratic. I haven't been able to identify it.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. We've detected several B'omar ships closing in on your position. What's your condition?
PARIS [OC]: Warp engines are offline, shields are

[Paris's shuttlecraft]

PARIS:At fifty percent.
JANEWAY [OC]: Try to locate them, Tom. We're on our way.

[Moon]

TUVOK: The signal's getting stronger
SEVEN: They're here, I'm sure of it.
TUVOK: This way.
(Seven hesitates.)
TUVOK: If you like, we can return to the shuttle.
SEVEN: No. I have to find out.
(They see a spacecraft sitting on a rock pinnacle.)
SEVEN: What is it?
TUVOK: It's a Federation vessel partially assimilated by the Borg. There are no lifesigns. Tritanium decay suggests it has been here for nearly twenty years.

[The Raven]

SEVEN: This vessel is familiar.
(They find a single green flashing console.)
SEVEN: This is the signal that's drawn me here.
(She turns it off.)

[The Raven - flashback]

FATHER [OC]: Annika!
MOTHER [OC]: Run, Annika! Run! Hide!
(Her parents are being dragged away by Borg.)

[The Raven]

SEVEN: Papa? Help me.
(She hides underneath the bank of consoles.)

[The Raven - flashback]

ANNIKA: No! No!
(A Borg reaches for the little girl.)

[The Raven]

TUVOK: Seven, I'm here. Listen to me. Come.
(She comes  out and stands.)
SEVEN: It happened here. This is where it began. This is where I was assimilated.
(She finds the ship's plaque - The Raven.)
SEVEN: This was our ship. We lived here. We lived here for a long time. My father did experiments. They were very important, and we had to travel a long way. I had my birthday here. My cake had six candles on it, and one more to grow on. And then the men came. Papa tried to fight them but they were too strong. I tried to hide. Maybe they wouldn't find me because I was little, but they did. And Papa said we were going to crash and the big man picked me up, and then suddenly we weren't on the ship anymore. We were somewhere else. And then I became Borg.
TUVOK: Fascinating. This resonance signal must have been active since the ship was assimilated, and Voyager passed within range.
(Boom!)
SEVEN: The ship is under attack.
TUVOK: The B'omar. The ship will collapse. We must get out of here.

[Bridge]

(Voyager as three B'omar ships are bombarding the moon's surface.)
KIM: The B'omar still aren't responding to our hails.
CHAKOTAY: Standing by to fire.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons systems. Tom, what's your status?
PARIS [OC]: I've located Tuvok and Seven, but there's a lot of interference. I'm attempting

[Paris' Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: To lock onto them now, Captain.

[The Raven]

SEVEN: This way.
(They run through the ship. A hit makes debris fall.)
TUVOK: Are you all right?
SEVEN: I am undamaged. This was the only way to the hatch.
TUVOK: Perhaps there is another way out. There's a hull rupture in the forward compartment. It may provide a means of escape. Start digging. Quickly.
(They pull at pieces of debris frantically.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We've disabled two of their ships. The third is still firing at the surface.
KIM: We're being hailed. Audio only.
GAUMAN [OC]: You're committing an act of war, Captain.
JANEWAY: You've left me no choice, Chancellor.
GAUMAN [OC]: Reinforcements are arriving. You will be destroyed.
JANEWAY: I don't have time for this. Target their weapons array.

[The Raven]

TUVOK: Seven, I need your help.
(Together they push away a large girder and escape through the hatch of NAR-37450 just before it falls to pieces and tumbles off the rock. They are beamed away.)

[Bridge]

PARIS [OC]: I've got them, Captain. We're on our way to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Good work.
KIM: I'm detecting a fleet of B'omar vessels approaching. Sixty eight ships.
JANEWAY: Ensign, as soon as Mister Paris's shuttle has docked, take us out of B'omar space. Warp eight.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
JANEWAY: Looks like there won't be any shortcuts this time.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci's Workshop]

(Seven is up in the gallery, looking at the flying machine.)
JANEWAY: There you are. I wanted to tell you that the Doctor said he could adjust one of your implants so that you won't receive any more homing signals.
SEVEN: Thank you. I hope you don't mind that I activated this programme.
JANEWAY: Not at all.
SEVEN: I've been thinking about what you said, that this was a place to encourage your imagination.
JANEWAY: Is that appealing to you?
SEVEN: I'm not certain. I find myself constructing scenarios, considering alternative possibilities. What if my parents and I had not encountered the Borg? What would our lives have been? I would have been raised by them, learned from them. It would have influenced what I became, who and what I am.
JANEWAY: And you would have done the same for them. If you'd like to know more about your parents, there's information in the Federation database.
SEVEN: Information?
JANEWAY: It seems they were fairly well known for being unconventional and for some rather unique scientific theories. You might like to read what's there. It might encourage your imagination.
SEVEN: Perhaps I will, some day. Good night, Captain.


S4 E7
Scientific Method
Stardate: 51244.3
Original Airdate:29 October 1997

[Jefferies tube]
(Torres opens a hatch to find someone else in her workspace.)
TORRES: Sorry. I didn't realise that you'd been assigned here today.
SEVEN: I wasn't. This space was unoccupied so I came here to work.
TORRES: On what?
SEVEN: I'm reconfiguring the power couplings in this section.
TORRES: Why?
SEVEN: The Astrometrics lab requires additional energy.
TORRES: I see. So you're rerouting power from other locations, like Engineering?
SEVEN: They are minor adjustments. Primary systems will not be affected.
TORRES: Unless, of course, someone is trying to do a warp core diagnostic, which my crew has been trying to do all morning. We have lost hours of work because of this.
SEVEN: There is no need for anger. I had no intention of causing a problem.
TORRES: What, sorry isn't in the Borg vocabulary? You need to check with me before you touch the power systems. Understood?
SEVEN: Understood.
(Seven moves aside for Torres.)
SEVEN: I am unaccustomed to working in a hierarchy. In the Collective there was no need to ask permission.
TORRES: If you're going to be a member of this crew, get used to it. Procedures exist for a reason. We've got to work together. Follow the same set of rules
SEVEN: Lieutenant?
TORRES: I was given that lecture once, by Captain Janeway when I first joined this crew. If I could adjust to Starfleet life, so can you.
SEVEN: Of course. I am sorry for the inconvenience.

[Doctor's office]

PARIS: Doc, I've got to go run a few errands, I'll be back soon.
EMH: Not so fast, Mister Paris. Can't these errands wait until the end of your duty shift?
PARIS: Well, it's my conn report, actually. I just realised I forgot to turn it in, and Chakotay gives me a hard time when it's late.
EMH: You've been here all afternoon. Didn't this occur to you before?
PARIS: Well, we've been so busy that I guess it just slipped my mind.
(The Sickbay is empty.)
EMH: I see. Well, since it's an emergency, don't let me stand in your way.
PARIS: Thanks.

[Corridor]

(Paris smiles at a crewwoman as he passes.)
CREWWOMAN: Sir.

[Science lab]

PARIS: Computer, lock onto these coordinates. I need a site to site transport. No, wait. Access the central replicator files first. Ah, perfect.

[Jefferies tube]

(Paris beams into the junction above where Torres is now working, holding a bunch of flowers.)
TORRES: Are those supposed to make up for cancelling on me last night?
PARIS: I got stuck with an extra shift on the bridge. What could I say? Sorry, Captain, I've got a date with B'Elanna?
TORRES: And what about right now? Aren't you supposed to be working in Sickbay?
PARIS: I said I had to go deliver a conn report.
TORRES: Not bad, but he'll be expecting you back.
PARIS: He can wait.
(As they kiss, we are treated to a view of their skeletons and musculature. Torres gasps.)
PARIS: What is it?
TORRES: I just had the feeling that somebody was watching us. I must be completely paranoid about getting caught in a compromising position.
PARIS: Kind of exciting, isn't it?

[Sickbay]

(Janeway is recieving a vigourous massage from the EMH.)
EMH: Your trapezius is hard as a rock. You haven't been following the relaxation regimen I prescribed for you.
JANEWAY: I've been too busy.
EMH: The usual story. Have you been getting enough sleep?
JANEWAY: More or less. Mostly less.
EMH: Mmm hmm. And have your headaches been getting any worse?
JANEWAY: No, but they're not getting any better either. They're like hot needles driving into my skull.
EMH: These symptoms are hardly surprising, Captain. You work absurdly long hours under constant stress, eating on the run, without sufficient exercise or rest. Your body is crying out for mercy.
JANEWAY: It certainly is right now, There must be some easier way to do this, Doctor. A hypospray, maybe?
EMH: Always looking for the simple fix. Sometimes there's no substitute for intensive osteopathic pressure therapy. You're fortunate to have a masseur who can work all day without tiring.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to the Captain.
EMH: Commander, unless this is an emergency, my patient is unavailable.
JANEWAY: I'm here, Chakotay. What is it?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've reached the source of those energy readings and I thought you'd like to see what we've found.
JANEWAY: On my way.
(Janeway gets off the massage table, holding a large towel around herself.)
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I know what you're going to say, Doctor, but I can't neglect my responsibilities.
EMH: Actually I was going to suggest a change of outfit.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Binary pulsars. The gravitational forces between them are so intense that everything within fifty million kilometres is getting pulled in.
PARIS: Don't worry. We're well out of range.
CHAKOTAY: Gamma radiation levels are high, but as long as we're careful I think we can collect some invaluable data. Captain, am I boring you?
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sorry. I guess I'm a little too tired to concentrate on stellar phenomenon right now. I'll leave this project in your capable hands.

[Engineering]

PARIS: You wanted to see me, Lieutenant?
TORRES: Yes. I'm trying to increase the efficiency of the impulse drive, but I wanted to make sure that I wasn't compromising helm control.
PARIS: A sensible precaution. I'd be glad to help.
TORRES: Good. All of the specs are at my upper workstation.
PARIS: Then let's get started.

[Engineering - upper level]

(Their passionate embrace pushes Torres back onto a console, which starts beeping. They fumble to turn it off.)
TORRES: Did you hear something?
PARIS: You always think you hear something.
(A door opens.)
PARIS: Commander.
TUVOK: Lieutenant. Here is the power usage data you requested.
TORRES: Right. Of course. I didn't expect it quite so promptly. Which I guess I should have, er, coming from you. I, I mean I'm grateful that you got the data to me so quickly. Thanks.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Tuvok. Tuvok, I guess that was kind of embarrassing.
TUVOK: I don't experience embarrassment.
PARIS: Right. Well, then I guess there's no harm done. It's not like there was a security violation or anything.
TUVOK: None that I am aware of.
PARIS: So, I guess there's nothing that would have to go on any kind of report.
TUVOK: You want me to conceal what I've observed of your relationship with Lieutenant Torres.
PARIS: Well, I'd certainly never ask you to be dishonest.
TUVOK: Certainly not.

[Outside Turbolift]

TORRES: Do you think he'll say anything to the captain?
PARIS: I don't know.
TORRES: Well how did he sound? Annoyed? Amused?
PARIS: He sounded Vulcan. What more can I tell you.

[Turbolift]

PARIS: Deck one.
TORRES: We've got to be more careful with appearances. We shouldn't go into the briefing at the same time.
PARIS: Good idea. Okay, you go in first, I'll come in a minute later.
TORRES: No, that'll look even more suspicious.
PARIS: Listen to us. We're acting like criminals when we haven't done anything wrong.
TORRES: Well, I'm not saying that we have. I just thought that we wanted to keep this relationship to ourselves. We do, right?
PARIS: Do you?
TORRES: If you do.
PARIS: Computer, halt turbolift. Let's figure out how we can handle this.
TORRES: Well, I don't think that it's anybody else's business how we feel about each other.
PARIS: Neither do I.
TORRES: Right, then we're agreed. Just a little more careful in public and we don't say anything to anybody.
PARIS: At least for now.
TORRES: Now? Sounds like you see a future in this.
PARIS: I would never be so presumptuous.
TORRES: Smooth recovery, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I thought so. Computer, resume.
TORRES: So I'll go first and you follow.
PARIS: Right.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: Here's the plan. We'll circle the pulsars at a distance of eighty million kilometres.
KIM: That might not be far enough. We've been detecting some random proton bursts. A strong one could knock out our shields.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, go to ninety. Keep a safe distance.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, keep our shields at maximum strength. Divert auxiliary power if you need it. I want to take every precaution on this survey. Report any problems immediately, no matter how small.
JANEWAY: Dismissed. Lieutenants Paris and Torres, I'd like to speak with you for a moment.
(Tuvok walks past Paris.)
PARIS: (sotto) Thanks.
JANEWAY: I don't usually pry into the personal lives of my crew, but in this case I have to question your recent conduct.
PARIS: I guess Tuvok
JANEWAY: Tuvok? I haven't heard a word from Tuvok. You two have been making enough of a public display that half the ship is gossiping about it.
TORRES: Believe me, that wasn't our intention.
JANEWAY: You are senior officers and I expect you to maintain the standard for the rest of the crew, but this adolescent behaviour makes me question my faith in you both. If you choose to pursue a relationship that's your business. But you consider yourselves under orders to use better judgment about it. Is that understood?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Chakotay's quarters]

(Chakotay leans back in his chair.)
CHAKOTAY: Computer, hot coffee, black.
(As he drinks it, we are 'treated' to a view of his skeleton and internal organs. He is suddenly struck with pain in his hands, and drops the cup. He puts them in cold water and bathes his face. As he runs his fingers through his hair, it falls out.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Commander Chakotay is suffering bone decalcification, tissue necrosis, decreased visual acuity. All classic signs of aging, but they've developed within hours.
(Chakotay is an wrinkled, bald old man with lots of liver spots on his skin.)
CHAKOTAY: Any theories?
EMH: There's a rare genetic disorder called progeria which causes children to age prematurely. But there's never been an adult case and it was supposedly eradicated two centuries ago. Even so, I took a close look at your DNA. These segments regulate your body's metabolism. My scans indicate that they've been hyper-stimulated somehow.
JANEWAY: What's the prognosis?
EMH: I can't speculate on that until I've identified the cause. There's no sign of an infectious agent.
JANEWAY: We spent several hours near a binary pulsar that was emitting intense gamma radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Our shields were operating. I don't see how I could have been exposed to it.
JANEWAY: At this point we can't rule out anything. I'm going to take a closer look at the data we collected.
CHAKOTAY: You should also run scans of my quarters, as well as my office and the bridge. Everywhere I've been today.
EMH: I'm not prepared to send you back on duty yet, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I may look pretty strange, but my mind is perfectly clear. I'd rather stay busy than just sit here.
EMH: I have no idea how your symptoms will progress. You should remain in Sickbay for observation.
JANEWAY: He's right, Chakotay. I'll keep you informed.
EMH: Whatever's affecting the Commander's DNA is working at a sub-molecular level. I'd like to set up an electron resonance scanner in the science lab to get a closer look.
JANEWAY: Use whatever you need, and ask B'Elanna to give you a hand.
EMH: Still having headaches, Captain?
JANEWAY: I don't need any more lectures about working too hard, Doctor. Chakotay's the one who needs your attention right now.
EMH: I'll get to work on the scanner right away.

[Mess hall]

KIM: Under orders to use better judgment? oh, that's pretty harsh.
PARIS: I hope I can manage it.
KIM: Well, she does have a point. You could have been more discreet.
PARIS: Oh, I forgot I was talking to the most upstanding Ensign in Starfleet.
NEELIX: Good morning.
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: I was just about to whip up a fresh batch of scrambled eggs. Would you like some?
KIM: Actually I was hoping you might have some leftover Pleeka rind casserole from last night.
PARIS: For breakfast?
KIM: I like it.
NEELIX: I'm sure I can find some for you.
KIM: So, I guess your relationship isn't exactly a secret anymore.
PARIS: Do you think anybody on this ship can keep a secret? (There is a crash and groan from the galley.)

[Galley]

(Neelix is on the floor, curled up and twitching.)
PARIS: Neelix!
NEELIX: What's, what's happening?
PARIS: Paris to the Doctor. I'm bringing Neelix to Sickbay. It's an emergency.

[Sickbay]

(Neelix is covered in his Talaxian spots.)
EMH: Now pay attention, Mister Paris. These scans should indicate whether. Hmm.
NEELIX: What is it?
EMH: It seems that your DNA has been hyper-stimulated, just like Commander Chakotay's.
PARIS: But Neelix doesn't seem to be aging.
EMH: No, the effects are quite different.
NEELIX: If anything, I look like a Mylean. They occupy a region of space near Talax.
EMH: Interesting. Do Talaxians and Myleans share a common ancestry?
NEELIX: Not that I know of.
EMH: Do the two races ever intermarry?
NEELIX: Yes. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather was Mylean.
EMH: Then one eighth of your genetic material was inherited from him. Those must be the genes which have become stimulated.
NEELIX: Too bad my great grandfather wasn't a little better looking.
EMH: Hmm. As far as I can tell, his condition seems stable. I'm going to leave you in charge of Sickbay so I can continue the DNA analysis.
PARIS: If anyone else comes in I'll run a cellular scan. Is there anything else I can do?
EMH: Do your best to keep them comfortable. Until we have more information, that's the best either of us can do.
(Later, Paris is working in the Doctor's office. Neelix walks stiff-legged to where Chakotay is sitting on a biobed, carrying a glass of water.)
NEELIX: I thought you might be thirsty.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks. Do you smell something strange?
NEELIX: I, I'm afraid that's me. I seem to be developing Mylean sweat glands. Sorry.
CHAKOTAY: It's not so bad.
NEELIX: Well, whatever happens, I try to keep in mind things could be worse.
(Neelix sits next to Chakotay, with a grunt.)
NEELIX: I still have my home here on Voyager, my friends.
CHAKOTAY: Your hair.
NEELIX: True. But I'd gladly lose it if I could have my taste buds back.
CHAKOTAY: At least you're not losing your eyesight. See that display over there? It's nothing but a blur.
NEELIX: You think that's bad? The Doctor tells me my pupils have dilated sixty percent. I can't even look at that display, it's so bright.
CHAKOTAY: Yeah? Well I've got chronic arthritis in my fingers. I could barely keep this glass steady.
NEELIX: Well, that's nothing. My spinal column is fusing together. In a matter of days I won't be able to walk.
CHAKOTAY: Got you beat. I can barely walk now.
(A crewman brings a woman in with scars on her face.)
NEELIX: Lieutenant, can we help?
PARIS: I don't think so. I'm releasing you both back to your quarters. I've just gotten reports of more patients on the way. It's going to get crowded in here.

[Science Lab]

EMH: How's the scanner?
TORRES: Almost ready.
EMH: Good. This disorder seems to be spreading rapidly among the crew.
TORRES: Does that mean we'll all be affected?
EMH: Right now it only means that we need to find some answers as quickly as possible.
TORRES: All right, give the scanner a try.
EMH: I'll start with Commander Chakotay.
TORRES: How's the resolution?
EMH: Very nice. Now, let's focus in on the hyper-stimulated segments of this DNA. Can you give me more magnification?
TORRES: Coming up.
(One of the molecules has a marking on it.)
EMH: That's odd.
TORRES: What is?
EMH: There seems to be some kind of contaminant on the base pair sequence. It didn't show up on the first scan. I need a closer look.
TORRES: I'm going to maximum magnification. What do you see?
(An alien bar code.)
EMH: I'm not exactly sure.
TORRES: Well, what does it look like?
EMH: See for yourself.
TORRES: I'm no microbiologist, but that doesn't look like it belongs there.
EMH: Believe me, it doesn't. I've never seen it. This level of sub-molecular technology is well beyond anything Starfleet has developed.
TORRES: What are those markings? Some kind of alien writing?
EMH: I wish I knew. They might help us determine where it came from.
TORRES: Who could have put this into Chakotay's cells without his knowledge? Let me try a compositional analysis.
(While Torres works at a circular free-standing console, the EMH puts another slide under the microscope.)
EMH: It's in Mister Neelix's DNA as well.
TORRES: Is this what's causing the mutations?
EMH: A good scientist never jumps to conclusions, Lieutenant, but I'd say it's a distinct possibility.
TORRES: I'm having trouble getting a clear reading from the sample. It looks almost like the er, whatever it is could be slightly out of phase.
EMH: That must be why my initial scans didn't reveal it.
TORRES: I'm compensating for the phase variance. You're not going to believe this, but I'm picking up an energy signature. This thing is transmitting some kind of a signal.
EMH: To where?
TORRES: I don't know. It's too weak to travel very far. Access the internal sensors and set them to a phase variance of point one five.
EMH: Right.
(He goes to console and flickers.)
EMH: Lieutenant.
(She checks his mobile emitter.)
TORRES: Your programme is being deleted.
EMH: How?
TORRES: I don't know. I'm transferring you back to Sickbay. (Then she is struck by a severe pain in the chest, and passes out.)
EMH: B'Elanna! Science lab to bridge. This is the Doctor.
(He flickers, and transfers himself somewhere.)

[Sickbay]

PARIS: In the last hour three more patients have come in with genetic mutations. The effects are starting to become life threatening.
JANEWAY: What happened to B'Elanna?
PARIS: The alveoli in her lungs suddenly stopped processing oxygen. I've got her on respiratory support. She almost died.
JANEWAY: What about the Doctor?
KIM: The computer logs in the science lab show that he was trying to transfer himself to Sickbay. Something must have gone wrong while he was in transit.
PARIS: Could the Doctor have returned to the mobile emitter?
EMH [OC]: Seven of Nine, this is the Doctor. Can you hear me? It's me, the Doctor. I've tapped into your audio implants so only you can hear me. It's imperative that you tell no one. Make any excuse to get out of there and report to holodeck two. I'm hiding in the da Vinci simulation. I'll explain everything when you get here.
[underneath the EMH's speech - KIM: We checked, but he never made it back there either. We do have a backup of his programme available.
JANEWAY: We'll only activate that as a last resort. I want to ...(inaudible)]
KIM: Seven was checking it.
JANEWAY: Seven? Seven?
KIM: About the Doctor's research.
SEVEN: Yes. I examined their work area. There was no record of any findings. The electron resonance scanner appeared to be malfunctioning. I could return to the science lab and attempt to repair it.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed.

[Holodeck two - da Vinci's workshop]

(The EMH is in period costume, and sketching a young model. Other holograms are doing the same.)
EMH: Hold your head this way, Carlotta. I can only conclude that someone has implanted these microscopic tags in the DNA of the crew to cause genetic mutations.
SEVEN: For what purpose?
EMH: I don't know. And I get the feeling they don't want us to find out.
SEVEN: Explain.
EMH: When Lieutenant Torres and I started making progress in our investigation we were both incapacitated. Call me paranoid, but I don't think that is a coincidence.
SEVEN: If you are correct, perhaps our actions are being monitored.
EMH: That's why I couldn't risk contacting anyone over the comm. system.
SEVEN: Our first course of action should be to collect more information.
EMH: My thinking exactly. B'Elanna wanted to adjust the ship's internal sensors to a phase variance of point one five. I'd like to do the same to your Borg sensory nodes.
(The holodeck computer access is inside a lecturn.)
SEVEN: Proceed.
EMH: Computer, give me a type four micro-inducer.
(The item appears in a bucket hanging from a hook on the side of the lecturn. The EMH waves it over Seven's cortical implant and her vision goes slightly fuzzy. Object have a rainbow surround now.)
EMH: Hmm. Now, take a look around and tell me what you see. Do you see anything unusual? Energy signatures? Or perhaps something that might be transmitting a signal?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: That's one room down, two hundred and fifty six to go. I suggest a deck by deck survey. If you need to contact me, use comm. frequency epsilon two. I've isolated it from the rest of the system.
SEVEN: Understood.
EMH: And be careful. Someone out there could be watching.
(Seven walks the corridors. She sees a crewman come out of a turbolift. To her eyes, he has a metal device strapped to his head with tubes running up his nostrils. An alien walks around the corner. Seven follows.)

[Turbolift]

SEVEN: Deck five.
(The alien steps into the turbolift before the doors close. He walks around her, then sticks a sort of probe into her chest. The turbolift doors open and he leaves. Seven follows.)

[Galley]

(In the Mess hall, she sees several crew with devices, and aliens monitoring them. She goes into the galley to get a drink and use her comm. badge.)
SEVEN: Computer, frequency epsilon two. Doctor, the aliens are here on the ship. I can see them everywhere.
EMH [OC]: This is worse than I imagined. You've got to let the captain know.

[Ready room]

(Doorbell.)
JANEWAY: Yes. Yes!
TUVOK: Good morning, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's a matter of opinion. What is it?
TUVOK: Internal scans haven't revealed anything about the genetic mutations.
JANEWAY: The Doctor?
TUVOK: Still offline. We are investigating the possibility
JANEWAY: Inform me of any progress.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: There's one more thing. The incident with Tom and B'Elanna's started me thinking about ship's protocol, or lack thereof.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: It seems to me that people have been getting a little too comfortable around here lately. They're late for their duty shifts, taking mess hall privileges during non-designated hours. And a lot of people are spending more time on the holodeck than they are at their posts. You are Security chief. Don't thirteen department heads report to you every day?
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: Well, straighten them out.
TUVOK: Shall I flog them as well?
JANEWAY: Maybe the Doctor was right. I think I do need a vacation.
TUVOK: You do seem unsettled.
JANEWAY: Crazed is more like it. I haven't felt this anxious since my first day of command. (doorbell) Remind me to lower the volume on that door. Come in.
SEVEN: Captain, I wish to speak with you about (Seven sees Janeway with large needles sticking into her head and two aliens monitoring her.)
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: My attempts to repair the resonance scanner have failed. I require assistance.
JANEWAY: Ask Ensign Kim to lend you a hand.
(The aliens twist the needles in Janeway's head.)
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
(Seven leaves.)
JANEWAY: Is that all? When this mutation crisis is over, I think I'll spend a few days in renaissance Tuscany. There's a little inn outside Siena I've been wanting to try.
TUVOK: I will join you for a glass of wine.

[Holodeck two - da Vinci programme]

(The life study class is still in progress. The EMH and Seven go up into the gallery.)
EMH: How many?
SEVEN: I've observed fifty six of the aliens. There could be more.
EMH: Have you seen any pattern to their behaviour? Any hint as to what they're trying to accomplish?
SEVEN: They seem to be conducting experiments on the crew and monitoring the results.
EMH: As if Voyager were one big petri dish.
SEVEN: I may be among them. In the turbolift one of them probed me with a medical instrument.
EMH: We cannot allow them to continue.
SEVEN: I've been analysing their energy signatures. I believe there's a way to make them visible to everyone.
EMH: How?
SEVEN: Using a precisely modulated phaser beam. If we expose them the crew may be able to fight back.
EMH: But what if the aliens retaliate by inflicting lethal mutations on everyone? It's too risky.
SEVEN: What do you suggest?
EMH: The key to the aliens' control is the genetic tags. I believe a neuraleptic shock would disable them. Unfortunately, it would be rather painful.
SEVEN: Will the crew recover?
EMH: Yes, they will. The hard part will be administering the shock to everyone simultaneously.
SEVEN: The power relays could be reconfigured to do it.
EMH: Good. I assume you know how to do that?
SEVEN: You assume correctly. But I will have to bypass several safeguards. It will take time.
EMH: Then you'd better get started.
(Seven goes to Engineering and does so. One monitor displays Safety Protocol Override command code HB-88.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Tuvok to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN [OC]: Yes.
TUVOK: Why have you accessed the EPS relay system?

[Engineering]

SEVEN: There is a malfunction. I'm attempting to repair it.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Perhaps you should leave that to the engineering crew.
SEVEN [OC]: Normally I would.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: However, they are all occupied with other tasks.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: You're compromising the power safety protocols. Stop what you're doing at once.
SEVEN [OC]: I assure you there is no cause for concern.

[Engineering]

(Seven moves to Torres' office and opens a drawer of isolinear chips. She starts rearranging them.)
TUVOK: Move away from the console.
SEVEN: As I told you, I am conducting repairs.
TUVOK: You're attempting to deceive me. Why?
(Three aliens come to listen to them.)
SEVEN: (sotto) I can't explain what I'm doing but you must allow me to continue.
TUVOK: Your actions could result in an energy discharge which would be harmful to the crew.
SEVEN: I realise that.
(One of the aliens steps forward. Seven pushes Tuvok aside, grabbing his phaser. She adjusts it and fires at the alien, bringing him into normal view. Then she takes her as a shield and points the phaser at the other two aliens.)
SEVEN: Don't move. If your people attempt to incapacitate me I will kill you.
ALZEN: I believe you. What do you intend to do now?
SEVEN: You will come with me to speak to the captain. I am certain she will have questions for you.

[Brig]

JANEWAY: Keep on trying to disable the tags. Let me know when you're ready.
SEVEN: Understood.
TUVOK: I'ill attempt to modify the internal sensors to detect the aliens.
JANEWAY: Good. Keep me informed. (Tuvok and Seven leave.)
JANEWAY: Who are you? And what the hell are you doing to my crew?
ALZEN: My team has been observing you and conducting tests.
JANEWAY: Tests? I'd call them mutilations.
ALZEN: I can understand why you're angry. I don't like causing people to suffer, but sometimes it's a necessary part of my work.
JANEWAY: What kind of work is that?
ALZEN: Medical research. We're scientists, like you.
JANEWAY: From where I stand you're a hostile invasion force. I want to know how long you've been here and exactly what you've been doing to us.
ALZEN: I can't answer those questions. It's a breach of protocol for me to be speaking to you at all.
JANEWAY: Oh, how convenient. That way you never have to face your victims.
ALZEN: Captain, please. You're exaggerating the situation. Our techniques are as benign as we can make them.
JANEWAY: What I've been through for the last few days certainly hasn't felt benign.
ALZEN: Please understand that there's a purpose to our actions. The data we gather from you may help us cure physical and psychological disorders that afflict millions. Isn't that worth some discomfort?
JANEWAY: I'm sure you'd see things differently if your people were the ones being subjected to these experiments.
ALZEN: Just as your perspective would change if your people were the ones to live longer and healthier lives as a result. Don't forget, we've been observing you, Captain. I know the most important thing to you is the welfare of your crew. You'd even kill to protect them.
JANEWAY: If necessary.
ALZEN: Of course you would. You take care of your own, just as we do. We're really more similar than you care to admit.
JANEWAY: That's where you're wrong.
(Janeway lowers the forcefield and steps into the cell.)
JANEWAY: What you're doing isn't self-defence. It's the exploitation of another species for your own benefit. My people decided a long time ago that that was unacceptable, even in the name of scientific progress.
ALZEN: You're a remarkably strong-willed individual. I've been very impressed by your self-control over the past several weeks. We've been increasing your dopamine levels, stimulating various aggressive impulses to test your behavioural restraints. There's been a great difference of opinion about how much more strain you can bear.
(Janeway slams Alzen against the wall.)
JANEWAY: Not much.
ALZEN: I'd hoped you'd be more cooperative once you realised the importance of our work.
JANEWAY: Sorry. These lab rats are fighting back.
ALZEN: I'm afraid that would be pointless. We're monitoring your attempts to break our control over you. You won't succeed.
JANEWAY: You may find that you've underestimated us.
ALZEN: Consider what's in the best interests of your crew. We will be continuing our research. If you make no further attempts to interfere, I assure you that the fatality rate will be minimal, though there may be some deformities. And I would be willing to share our final data with you.
JANEWAY: You can't possibly expect me to accept that.
ALZEN: If you don't, then the entire experiment and its subjects will be terminated.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Are you telling me there is no way to disable the tags?
SEVEN: My attempts to use the EPS relays to induce neuraleptic shock have failed. The aliens may be responsible.
TUVOK: I've encountered similar difficulties in my efforts to modify the internal sensors. They appear to have gained access to our key systems.
JANEWAY: They can't be everywhere all the time. We have got to find an advantage.
EMH: We'd better find one soon. Sickbay is being filled with new patients with increasingly severe symptoms.
SEVEN: We have the ability to make them visible. If we could modify enough sensors we could resist them.
TUVOK: They are capable of manipulating our DNA. A direct conflict would be inadvisable.
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge to Doctor. Medical emergency.

[Bridge]

(A crewwoman is on the deck. Veins are standing out all over her face.)
EMH: She's in hypertensive shock. Twenty milligrams lectrazine. Her blood pressure is three sixty over one twenty five.
JANEWAY: How is that possible?
EMH: Severe adrenal stress. No effect.
(The crewwoman stops convulsing.)
EMH: Her arterial pathways are rupturing. She's in cardiac arrest. We're losing her.
(Janeway tries CPR.)
EMH: Captain, I'm afraid that won't help. There's too much internal bleeding.
JANEWAY: Then try something else. We'll transport her to Sickbay.
EMH: Her entire circulatory system has collapsed. There's no way to repair that kind of damage. Brain death has occurred. I'm sorry, there was nothing more we could have done.
JANEWAY: This ends right now. (to helmswoman) You're relieved.
TUVOK: Captain, what are you doing?
JANEWAY: I'm running a little experiment of my own. Red alert!
(She flies Voyager towards the twin pulsars.)
SEVEN: Captain, one of the aliens has entered the bridge.
JANEWAY: Understood.
TUVOK: We're less than a million kilometres from the pulsars. We must change course immediately to avoid being caught in their gravity.
JANEWAY: No. Keep going.
TUVOK: This is a far more reckless course of action than I've come to expect from you, Captain.
JANEWAY: It certainly is.
TUVOK: Hull stress is at thirty teradynes and rising.
KIM: I'm transferring more power to the structural integrity field, but I don't know how long it can hold.
(An alien female becomes visible.)
TAKAR: What do you hope to accomplish by this?
JANEWAY: Flying into a binary pulsar? It seems like I'm trying to crush this ship like a tin can.
TAKAR: It's more likely that you're trying to intimidate us.
JANEWAY: You're welcome to stick around and find out.
TUVOK: Hull stress is at forty five teradynes.
(Takar tries to use the helm controls.)
JANEWAY: Our course is locked in. Only my authorisation can release it.
TAKAR: You're not behaving very rationally.
JANEWAY: That's what you are trying to accomplish, wasn't it? Hmm? Pumping up my dopamine levels to push me to the edge? Keeping me awake for four days straight with the constant pain of your devices drilling into my skull? Well, this is the culmination of your work, and guess what? You're going to be right here to collect the final data.
KIM: Shields have failed. Structural integrity is down to twenty percent.
TAKAR: Enter the authorisation code and change course immediately.
JANEWAY: I don't think you realise that you are not in control here anymore.
TAKAR: I can kill you and your crew in an instant.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. Without us, you won't be able to prevent this ship from being torn apart by the pulsars. And even with my crew working together, I'd say the odds of us getting through this are, what, one in ten?
TUVOK: One in twenty at best, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to take that chance. Are you?
(Takar disappears.)
TUVOK: Outer hull temperature has reached nine thousand degrees.
KIM: The hull is beginning to buckle.
SEVEN: Two alien vessels are attempting to disengage from Voyager.
(One makes it, the other is ripped apart by the pulsar's gravity.)
JANEWAY: I can't break us free of the gravitational forces.
KIM: Then let's divert all power to the shields.
JANEWAY: No. If we go in, we go in full throttle.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Assuming we survive we'll need all the momentum we can get to reach escape velocity on the other side. Everyone hang on. I hope you were exaggerating about those odds, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I was not. Hull stress has exceeded maximum tolerance.
(Things start to go bang.)
SEVEN: There are breaches on decks four, seven, eight and twelve.
KIM: Emergency forcefields are holding.
JANEWAY: I've lost helm control.
TUVOK: Main power is offline.
JANEWAY: Well, let's hope we've got enough speed.
(Voyager whooshes out the other side and into clear space.)
KIM: I don't believe it. We're alive.
JANEWAY: I never realised you thought of me as reckless, Tuvok.
TUVOK: A poor choice of words. It was clearly an understatement.

Captain's log, stardate 51244.3. With the aliens gone, the Doctor has been able to remove their devices from the crew and neutralise the genetic tags.

[Paris's quarters]

(Dinner for two. Paris pours the wine.)
TORRES: It was nice you could get the night off.
PARIS: Nice had nothing to do with it. I switched shifts with Ensign Wildman which means tomorrow I'll pull a double duty on the bridge and with the Doc.
TORRES: Well, I appreciate the sacrifice. Tell me about the wine.
PARIS: Ah. Ktarian Merlot, 2282. You might want to let it breathe first.
TORRES: We've got all night to let it breathe,
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering to Lieutenant Torres.
TORRES: Torres here.
CREWMAN [OC]: We're having a problem with the plasma manifold. I thought you'd want to take a look.
TORRES: I don't. Lock it down for now, I'll deal with it in the morning. Torres out. Sometimes it's nice to be the Chief Engineer.
PARIS: Try the salad, Chief.
TORRES: Hmm. This is really delicious.
PARIS: Oh, thanks. I replicated it myself.
TORRES: Mmm, you're too good for me. (doorbell) Ignore it.
PARIS: Right. (doorbell) I'll get rid of them.
KIM: Oh, hi, er, sorry to interrupt. Hi, B'Elanna.
PARIS: Harry, I'm not home.
KIM: I just wanted to return this.
(Kim hands over a PADD.)
PARIS: Thanks.
KIM: Smells good.
(Paris shuts the door in his face.)
PARIS: That's it. No more interruptions.
(He takes off his comm. badge. Torres does the same.)
TORRES: You know, I've been thinking about what the captain said.
PARIS: Thinking maybe she was right? Me, too.
TORRES: We have been a little out of control lately.
PARIS: Do you think we really were?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Out of control. Those aliens could have just been messing around with our hormones just to see what would happen.
TORRES: You're right, they could have. And we don't know how long they were on board. They could have been tampering with us for months.
PARIS: Well, when you think about it you did have a pretty abrupt change of heart a couple of weeks ago. What made you realise that you love me all of a sudden?
TORRES: Just a feeling. So our whole relationship might be based on some alien experiment.
PARIS: You never know.
TORRES: Well, I think that explains it.
PARIS: I guess we should just call it off, then.
TORRES: I think so.
PARIS: Thank God we found out in time.
TORRES: Thank God.
(They kiss.)
PARIS: I don't know about you, but I'm curious to see how this experiment turns out.


S4 E8
Year of Hell Part 1
Stardate: 51268.4 - 51252.3
Original Airdate: 5 November 1997

Day 1
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

(Above a city built on the usual grid system with travel tubes in mid air, a spaceship with six projections is hanging. The projections hold a massive 'jewel' at one end, which magnifies the energy pulse the ship aims at the city. The city is transformed into woodland and open meadows.)
OBRIST: Temporal incursion is complete. All organisms and man-made objects have been eradicated.
ANNORAX: Probe the continuum. Has our target event been achieved?
OBRIST: Negative. Negative target event. I don't understand, sir. We spent months making these calculations.
ANNORAX: Time is patient, so we must be patient with it. Eradicating a single Zahl colony wasn't enough for a total restoration. We have to work on a larger scale. Take us to the Zahl homeworld. Prepare a new set of calculations. We must erase the entire species from time. Every lifeform, every molecule.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Space, the great unknown, Only now we're going to know it a little better. Harry?
(An image of our galaxy from above is divided into grids. Note to the interested, the long wig has finally been discarded and Janeway has Kate Mulgrew's natural shorter length hair.)
CHAKOTAY: Before there were maps and globes, let alone radar and subspace sensors, mariners navigated by the stars. We're returning to that tried and true method, but this time there's a difference.
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim and Seven of Nine have merged Starfleet and Borg ingenuity to create this new technology.And I'm sure I speak for the entire crew when I say, thank you. Now, how the hell does it work?
SEVEN: Astrometric sensors measure the radiative flux of up to three billion stars simultaneously. The computer then calculates our position relative to the centre of the galaxy.
KIM: This mapping technology is ten times more accurate than what we've been using. Seven, will you do the honours? We've plotted a new course home.
SEVEN: By my estimates this trajectory will eliminate five years from your journey.
NEELIX: Our journey. Nice work, Seven.
TORRES: That region of space we're about to enter. It looks like it has a lot of M-class planets.
SEVEN: It does. Spatial grid zero zero five. Primary species, the Zahl.
TUVOK: What do we know about this species?
SEVEN: Technologically advanced but nonconfrontational. Their resistance quotient is quite low.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you all for coming. We've got a lot of work to do, so
EMH: I'd like to say a few words if I may. I've prepared a speech for this occasion. When I was first activated on Stardate 48315, and I found myself mano a mano with the Delta Quadrant, I didn't think we'd survive a week, let alone three years. There was strife. There was discord. You were all at each others throats. But over time, I've had the pleasure and pride of watching this crew learn to work together as colleagues, even friends.
PARIS: Hear, hear.
EMH: Who would have thought that this eclectic group of voyagers could actually become a family? Starfleet, Maquis, Klingon, Talaxian, hologram, Borg, even Mister Paris. Granted, we've had our share of difficulties. One might say, we've seen the best of times and the worst of times. I'd now like to recount some of those times from my unique perspective. Under the category of best of times, I invite you all to recall the moment when I
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge to captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CREWMAN [OC]: We're being hailed. A vessel off the port bow.
CHAKOTAY: On our way.
EMH: Perhaps we could all reconvene later?

[Bridge]

LANG: They're firing on us, Captain.
TUVOK: It's a small vessel, fifteen lifeforms aboard. Low warp capacity, limited armaments. They pose no threat.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Good day, sir. Have we offended you in some way?
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You will reverse course immediately. This region is in dispute. You have no business in Krenim space.
JANEWAY: I was under the impression we were entering Zahl territory.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: The Zahl have no legitimate claim here. They have taken what is ours. Reverse course or be destroyed.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, unless you've got something a little bigger in your torpedo tubes, I'm not turning around. But I'm certainly willing to discuss this issue with you.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: No discussion! No compromise!
(Transmission ends.)
TUVOK: They are in retreat.
CHAKOTAY: His bark's obviously worse than his bite.
JANEWAY: He seems rather intent. Let's go to yellow alert. Maintain our course. Maybe the Zahl can give us some answers.

Day 4

[Briefing room]

(Voyager hangs nose to nose with two large spaceships. Unlike the Krenim and their severe uniforms, the Zahl go for a more casual look.)
ZAHL OFFICIAL: As long as you travel in Zahl territory you travel among friends. I apologise for your mishap with the Krenim.
JANEWAY: It was hardly traumatic, but I am curious. The Krenim claim this region as their own.
ZAHL OFFICIAL: The Krenim dominated this space many years ago. They possessed deadly weapons based on temporal science, and it kept them in power for a long time. But a generation ago we fought the Krenim. We defeated them and took back the planets that they had annexed, dismantled their military forces. Their ships still wander our territory making grandiose claims. Don't let them trouble you. Now, tell me about Voyager. A single ship alone, half a galaxy from home. How exciting for you.
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Captain. Sorry to interrupt, but the Krenim vessel is back. They're demanding to speak with you.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Hello again.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You've ignored our warnings, and now you consort with our enemy.
ZAHL OFFICIAL: Leave this space or I'll seize your vessel and send you home in a cargo container.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, please. Believe me, we're not conspiring against you.
KIM: Captain, there's a spatial distortion heading towards us. Whatever it is, it's huge. Five light years across and it's expanding.
TUVOK: Tracking it's origin. A vessel near the Zahl homeworld.
ZAHL OFFICIAL: What?
TUVOK: It appears to be a massive build-up of temporal energy. Some kind of space-time shock wave.
JANEWAY: Tom.
PARIS: It's destabilising our warp field. I've lost engines.
JANEWAY: Shields to full. Secure primary systems. All hands, brace for impact.
(The shock wave makes the Zahl ships vanish and the small Krenim ship turns into a big battle cruiser. As it passes through Voyager, the Zahl official disappears and Ms Lang is lying on the deck.)
CHAKOTAY: She's dead.
TUVOK: Shields at seventy percent. The Krenim are firing again. We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: It's about time. On screen. We've done nothing to provoke these attacks.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Your presence in our space is provocation enough.
JANEWAY: We've been trying to communicate with your vessels but the only answer I get is weapons fire.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: State your identity.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: And your reason for violating our borders?
JANEWAY: We're simply trying to get home. If you'd kindly allow us to pass through
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: No. You will submit to the Krenim Imperium. I would prefer to seize your vessel before it is too badly damaged. Surrender now and I will forego the execution of your crew.
JANEWAY: I don't respond well to threats.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Then prepare to be boarded.
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: All hands, battle stations. This is turning into the Week of Hell.
TUVOK: They are charging weapons. Three seconds to impact.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
KIM: Direct hit to our secondary hull.
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand why these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields.
TUVOK: Their weapons are chronoton based. They're penetrating our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux.
JANEWAY: Then lets exercise the better part of valour. Get us out of here, warp six.
PARIS: Warp six. No sign of pursuit.
JANEWAY: Damage report.
TUVOK: Fifteen wounded. Main power is down. We've lost environmental control on decks seven and eight. The computer is offline.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, do we have any sensors left?
KIM: Short range only.
JANEWAY: Commander, put the ship on twenty four hour tactical alert. Tuvok, analyse whatever data we've got on those chronoton torpedoes. See if you can modify our shielding. When those Krenim attack again, I want to be ready.

[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's office]

(Annorax is studing a small object held in a clear pyramid.)
ANNORAX: Enter.
OBRIST: Sir, you were correct. The Zahl homeworld was the focal point. Its erasure has produced a complete temporal restoration.
ANNORAX: Complete?
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: If I told you to count the stars in the cosmos would the task ever be complete?
OBRIST: Sir?
ANNORAX: Our attempts may be sufficient. They may be even relatively successful, but they will never be complete. Choose your words with more precision.
OBRIST: My apologies.
ANNORAX: What were the exact results?
OBRIST: The Krenim Imperium has been restored to power. Our territory now includes eight hundred and forty nine inhabited worlds spanning five thousand parsecs.
ANNORAX: Counter indications?
OBRIST: Negligible. No superior enemy forces, no unexpected diseases. Calculations indicate a ninety eight percent restoration. Our race is thriving once again.
ANNORAX: The, er, the colony at Kyana Prime. That was restored as well?
OBRIST: No, sir. In this timeline the Imperium does not extend that far.
(Annorax puts down the pyramid.)
ANNORAX: Then our mission has failed. Begin calculations for the next incursion.
OBRIST: Sir, we have just accomplished the impossible. A ninety eight percent restoration. Another incursion, even a minor one, could undermine everything. We should dismantle this weapon and rejoin our people.
ANNORAX: No, not until every colony, every individual, every blade of grass is restored.
OBRIST: You said yourself our task will never be complete. Please. We should be satisfied with what we have accomplished. For two hundred years, we have never come this close.
ANNORAX: Not close enough.
OBRIST: If I may speak my thoughts. Many among the crew are convinced that you have lost your objectivity. They think your quest for precision is unrealistic. Sir, we will never restore one hundred percent of what we had. We can manipulate the time continuum for another ten centuries. It will never happen.
ANNORAX: Return to your station and begin a new set of calculations. Is that clear?
OBRIST: Perfectly.
ANNORAX: You surprise me, Obrist, After so many years, you still perceive time through conventional eyes. Never is a word that has no meaning here. As long as we stay on this vessel, protected from space-time, we have all eternity to accomplish our mission.
OBRIST: Of course, sir.

Day 32

[Bridge]

(Small pieces of debris littler the deck.)
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Weapons are down. My attempt to modify the shielding was unsuccessful.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, during that last exchange we did some damage. The Krenim's aft shields are down. They're vulnerable.
PARIS: We've got to hit them, now.
KIM: With what? Phaser banks are burned out, torpedo launchers are offline.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to bridge. We've got a power overload in Sickbay. I need an engineer down here right away.
CHAKOTAY: Stand by, Doctor. Harry, can you handle it from here?
KIM: No, sir. The overload's spreading. Half that deck is going to blow in less than five minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get your patients out of there. All hands, this is the bridge. Emergency evacuation deck five.
JANEWAY: How many torpedoes do we have left?
TUVOK: Eleven.
JANEWAY: Arm four of them. Stand by to open the launch doors. We're going to deploy them like mines.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tom, I need your finesse. Let the Krenim get within five thousand metres of us.
PARIS: No problem.

[Deck five]

EMH: Keep moving. Quickly, please, move quickly.
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in three minutes.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Torpedoes armed and ready.
PARIS: They're within range.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, do it.
(The massive Krenim battleship flies into the photon torpedoes and goes KaBOOM!)
PARIS: Got him!
KIM: The conduits on deck five are overloading. Thirty seconds till they blow.

[Deck five]

EMH: Keep moving! Please hurry. That's it.
(The EMH gets his people to a Jefferies tube hatch at the end of the corridor.)
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse 

[Bridge]

COMPUTER: In twenty seconds.
KIM: Fifteen seconds!

[Jefferies Tube deck five]

(The EMH holds the hatch open as two people run along the corridor.)
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in ten seconds. Warning, structural collapse in five, four, three, two, one.
(He lets the hatch close. An explosion rips along the whole starboard side of the main section, throwing the bridge crew to the deck.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report!
KIM: Sections ten through fifty three on deck five are gone.
JANEWAY: Casualties?
TUVOK: Reports are coming in. Twelve wounded, many of them critically. The Doctor is setting up a triage facility in the mess hall. Two crew members were killed in the breach.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Assemble a security team. Survey the ship deck by deck. I want a full damage report. I'll be in my ready room. You have the bridge. What's left of it.

[Ready room]

(Also with debris on all surfaces. It is dark, just one light flickering.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Sorry about the mess.
CHAKOTAY: You should see my place. They haven't looked as bad since my old Academy days.
JANEWAY: Is there something on your mind?
(She hands him her favourite teapot, still intact.)
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but you're not going to like it.
JANEWAY: That's never stopped you before. Broken.
(The desk computer.)
CHAKOTAY: I'll be blunt. Our strategy is failing. It was a good idea to try and create temporal shielding but it isn't working.
JANEWAY: Not yet, but it will. With every attack we're getting more information about their chronoton weapons.
CHAKOTAY: How many more attacks will it take? Before long, there won't be a ship left to protect.
JANEWAY: We don't have a choice.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we do.
JANEWAY: Here comes the part I'm not going to like.
CHAKOTAY: We should consider leaving the ship behind, breaking the crew into smaller groups. Escape pods, shuttles, each one with its own course. If all goes well, we'll rendezvous on the other side of Krenim space.
JANEWAY: Then what?
CHAKOTAY: We'll cross that bridge when we come to it. But at least we'd be increasing our chances of survival.
JANEWAY: Abandon ship? The answer's no. I'm not breaking up the family, Chakotay. We're stronger as a team. One crew, one ship. The moment we split apart, we lose the ability to pool our talents. We become vulnerable. We'll get picked off one by one. Now I say we make our stand. Together.
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, I wasn't too fond of the idea myself.
JANEWAY: As long as Voyager's in one piece, we stay.
CHAKOTAY: We stay. This looks like it stayed in one piece. Where does this go?
JANEWAY: My lucky teacup. Right over here.
(Whumph!)
PARIS [OC]: Red alert. We're under attack. Two Krenim warships off the port bow.
(Janeway puts her lucky teacup on the desk, but vibrations from the attack shake it onto the deck, where it breaks. Can I ask a question here? What happened to the report on the Krenim's weaponry that Kes compiled after the events of 'Before and After'?)

Day 47

[Turbolift]

TORRES: When are they going to get us out of here?
KIM: Try to relax. Let's get back to the game. Grace Kelly. Cat burglars. The Riviera. Name the title and the male lead.
TORRES: To Catch A Thief.
KIM: Right.
TORRES: Clark Gable.
KIM: Wrong. Cary Grant.
TORRES: I've seen the holographic version twice. It's Clark Gable.
KIM: I think you're getting them confused because they have the same initials. It was Grant.
TORRES: No more twentieth century entertainment. I'm terrible at it. My turn. Category, athletics.
KIM: Fire away.
TORRES: A notorious athlete, Parrises Squares championship finals, er, controversial decision.
KIM: M'Kota R'Cho. The first and only Klingon to play the game. During the finals of 2342 one of the referees called a penalty against his team. R'Cho strangled him.
TORRES: Impressive.
KIM: You're looking at a true sports aficionado. Let's see, how about interstellar history?
TORRES: Oh, great. You pick the one subject I almost failed at the Academy. Go ahead and ask. Ow!
KIM: Are you all right?
TORRES: It just hurts a little. Feels like we've been here for days.
KIM: Actually, it's been about six hours. Try to hang on, B'Elanna. The emergency crews are going find us any minute. Come on, hurry up!
TORRES: Go ahead and ask your stupid question before I pass out and you don't have anybody to play with.
KIM: Okay. Er, it's a famous ship. Er, pre-warp civilisation. Er, Montana. Er, second stage had chemical engines.
TORRES: Another clue.
KIM: Vulcans. Er, Earth, First Contact. 
TORRES: Oh, right, right. Er, er, er, Zephram Cochrane's ship. What was it called? Oh, it's on the tip of my tongue. Ow!
KIM: Okay, here, here, you'd better lie down now. Enough trivia for now.
TORRES: No, no, I'm going to get this one.
(The turbolift doors are crowbarred open.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant. Ensign.
TORRES: It's about time. What happened to the turbolift?
SEVEN: During the last attack nineteen main power relays were severed. The entire turbolift system is non-operational.

[Corridor]

TORRES: Get me to the Jefferies tube network on deck eleven. The EPS manifold must have taken a hit, too.
KIM: Seven of Nine can go take a look. We have to get you to the Doctor.
TORRES: All right.
SEVEN: The Phoenix.
KIM: What?
SEVEN: The correct response to your query. The vessel Ensign Kim was describing. It was designated the Phoenix.
KIM: Not bad. I didn't realise you knew so much about Earth history.
SEVEN: I don't, but the Borg were present during those events.
KIM: Really.
SEVEN: It's a complicated story. Perhaps another time.
TORRES: I think so.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Transverse bulkheads. We've set up emergency forcefields between all decks and every section. In the event of a cataclysmic breach most of us will be protected.
JANEWAY: Ingenious.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, you can thank Mister Paris. He came up with the idea.
PARIS: I was inspired by an ancient steamship, the Titanic. The engineers of the day constructed a series of special bulkheads, sort of like a honeycomb, that would lower into place if they suffered a major hull breach. In theory, they could stay afloat even with half the ship filled with water.
JANEWAY: The Titanic? As I recall, it sank.
PARIS: Well, let's just say I've made a few improvements.
JANEWAY: I knew your fixation with history would come in handy someday. Good work.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Lieutenant Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead, Doc.
EMH [OC]: Report to the mess hall at once. More wounded are one the way.
PARIS: I'll be right there. I'm a popular guy today.

[Jefferies tube]

(Seven forces open a stuck hatch and sees the same sight that Kes did there back in Before and After. She scans the chronoton torpedo.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here.
SEVEN: There is an undetonated chronoton torpedo lodged in the starboard Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two. The warhead is still active.
TUVOK [OC]: Do not attempt to disarm it. Hold your position and wait for my arrival. Is that clear?
SEVEN: Arrive quickly.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: I've stopped the internal bleeding. You're going to be okay.
TORRES: Is that your expert opinion?
PARIS: That's a promise. I know it still hurts.
TORRES: It's all right.
PARIS: You've got a ruptured vertebra. I'll see if I can repair it.
EMH: Mister Paris, your assistance please.
PARIS: Give me a minute.
EMH: Now, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I'll be right back. Don't go anywhere.
EMH: In case you hadn't noticed, B'Elanna is not the only patient here.
PARIS: She's in pain.
EMH: But no longer in danger of dying. That is the first rule of medical triage. Make sure the patient will live, then move on to the next one. Emotional detachment is essential otherwise, you risk impairing your judgment.
PARIS: I understand.
EMH: You could be seeing more of your friends in here soon. If you can't handle itm I'll find another assistant. You can leave.
PARIS: Physician, heal thyself.
EMH: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: It seems to me that you're the one who's getting emotional around here.
EMH: Several weeks ago, just before the conduits on deck five breached, I saw Ensign Strickler and Crewman Emmanuel at the end of a corridor. They were trying to reach the Jefferies tube. I kept the hatch open, waited for them as long as I could, but time ran out. I had no choice but to seal the hatch.
PARIS: It must have been very hard for you.
EMH: My point is, it could have been worse. Had I lost my objectivity, I might have kept the hatch open and everyone would have perished. This man has damaged lung tissue. Treat him with inaprovaline.

[Jefferies tube]

TUVOK: If we attempt to dislodge the torpedo or move it with the transporters, it will most likely detonate.
SEVEN: Can we disarm it?
TUVOK: No. The warhead is already destabilising. I estimate it will explode in less than two minutes. If we re-route emergency power to this junction and erect a level ten force field it should be enough to contain the explosion. We must hurry.
SEVEN: If I can determine the exact temporal variance of this torpedo it will help us perfect the temporal shielding.
TUVOK: There is no time.
SEVEN: We may never have this opportunity again.
TUVOK: I am giving you an order. Now!
SEVEN: The temporal variance is one point four seven microseconds.
TUVOK: Excellent work, but if you disobey my orders again I will be forced to
(The torpedo explodes. Tuvok shields Seven with his body as the flames rush down the Jefferies tube. Now we know why Kes is being ignored. It is so Seven can take the credit for saving the ship.)

Day 65

Captain's log, stardate 51268.4. This morning's attack destroyed the power grid on deck eleven. No casualties this time, but the replicator system was badly damaged. We've gone to emergency rations. As a result, the situation has gotten a little worse. Environmental controls continue to fail. Seven decks have been rendered uninhabitable and we've had to relocate the crew. Quarters are close, nerves are frayed, and I'm not sure what's more difficult to maintain. Voyager's systems or the crew's morale. What's important is that we're together, working toward a single goal. Survival.

[Bridge]

(Chakotay holds out a pocket watch. He is growing a moustache and beard.)
CHAKOTAY: Happy birthday.
JANEWAY: Happy what?
CHAKOTAY: Today is May twentieth.
JANEWAY: Is it? I thought we were still in April. Guess I've lost track of the time.
CHAKOTAY: Well, this should help.
JANEWAY: It's beautiful.
CHAKOTAY: Nineteenth century, mechanical movement. It's a replica of the chronometer worn by Captain Cray of the British Navy, His ship was hit by a typhoon in the Pacific. Everyone back in England thought they were killed, but eight months later Cray sailed his ship into London harbour. There wasn't much left of it, a few planks, half a sail, but he got his crew home.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the sentiment, but I can't keep this. Recycle it. We can't afford to waste energy on nonessentials.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, I replicated this months ago. I've been saving it. I wanted you to have it.
JANEWAY: That watch represents a meal, a hypospray, or a pair of boots. It could mean the difference between life and death one day.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok dips his Vulcan cut-throat razor into the water and starts to shave himself. He nicks his jawline. The mirror above the bowl is shattered. He feels for the towel. The doorbell chimes.)
TUVOK: Enter.
SEVEN: Reporting for duty, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: What is our agenda?
SEVEN: After we make your customary rounds, I'd like to take you to deflector control. I had an inspiration last night about the temporal shielding.
TUVOK: Excellent.
SEVEN: You've been damaged.
TUVOK: A minor laceration.
SEVEN: I have offered to assist you with your personal grooming.
TUVOK: There are some tasks I would rather perform myself.
SEVEN: Unacceptable. You're risking further injury.
TUVOK: Shaving is hardly a life-threatening activity. Tell me about your inspiration.
SEVEN: We've been trying to match our shields to the temporal variance of their torpedoes, but I believe we must also match the deflector array to the inverse of that variance.
(Tuvok goes into his main room and sits. Seven brings his boots for him to put on.)
TUVOK: Fascinating. When will the deflectors be ready?
SEVEN: They're ready now, but the modifications are untested.
TUVOK: Then our rounds can wait. Take me to deflector control.

[Corridor]

(Tuvok holds Seven's arm as she leads the blind Vulcan along the corridor.)
BROOKS: Seven.
SEVEN: Ensign.
TUVOK: A friend of yours?
SEVEN: My cabin mate. As a Borg, I was accustomed to cohabitating with thousands of other drones, but I find it significantly more difficult to live with a single human.
TUVOK: In what way?
SEVEN: Ensign Brooks is negligent. She leaves her equipment lying around the quarters and her clothing on the floor.
TUVOK: Indeed. I have found that most humans are less than meticulous when it comes to their domestic habits.
SEVEN: Indeed.
NEELIX: Mister Vulcan, sir. A tactical question if I may?
(Neelix is in Starfleet uniform.)
TUVOK: You may.
NEELIX: We're just about done rebuilding the internal security sensors, and we're ready to programme the audio signal. Do you want it to say intruder alert, or should we try something a little more dramatic, like Warning, intruder alert or, Intruders among us! Danger! Danger! Intruders among us?
TUVOK: Intruder alert will suffice.
NEELIX: Yeah, go with the classic. Understood, sir.
(Neelix walks on.)
TUVOK: And you believe you have difficulties.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All hands to battle stations. Krenim vessels approaching. Repeat, all hands to battle stations.
TUVOK: Go to deflector control and bring the new shields online. We will test them in battle.

[Bridge]

(The bridge is now messier than a teenager's bedroom, with huge chunks of superstructure hanging down. Tuvok feels his way to his station.)
TUVOK: Computer, activate tactile interface.
CHAKOTAY: Weapons status?
TUVOK: Phasers are still online. Torpedo launchers are still inoperative.
PARIS: The Krenim are within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: Seven's modified temporal shields should be online in a moment.
KIM: It's a warship.
JANEWAY: You know the routine.
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres.
KIM: They're matching course.
CHAKOTAY: Hold them off as long as you can. Bridge to Seven of Nine.

[Deflector control]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Where are those shields?
SEVEN: Stand by.

[Bridge]

KIM: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Seven, we could a little of that Borg efficiency right about now.
PARIS: I can't shake them.
KIM: They're targeting the bridge.

[Deflector control]

SEVEN: Temporal shielding is online.

[Bridge]

KIM: They're firing.
CHAKOTAY: Full port thrusters.
(One torpedo misses, the other hits.)
TUVOK: Temporal shields are holding. No damage.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: Channel open.
JANEWAY: Krenim vessels, this is the captain of Voyager. You may have noticed we have a defence against your torpedoes now. I suggest you stand down.
TUVOK: No response.
JANEWAY: Their mistake. Bring the ship about. We're going through their space whether they like it or not.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

OBRIST: We are within range of the Garenor homeworld.
ANNORAX: Set temporal coordinates. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure of the species.
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Ready.
ANNORAX: Fire.
(The ray spreads around the planet then off into space.)
OBRIST: Temporal incursion in progress.
ANNORAX: Trace elements?
OBRIST: Diminishing.
ANNORAX: Counter indications?
OBRIST: None so far. Organisms and structures are being eradicated.
ANNORAX: Track the temporal wavefront as it passes through the system. I want to monitor every change in the timeline as it occurs.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Captain, the Krenim warship is in pursuit, but their weapons are not powered.
JANEWAY: They don't know what to do with us now that we're shielded against their torpedoes.
KIM: Captain, there's some kind of spatial distortion heading toward us. Sensor readings are erratic. I can't identify the phenomenon.
CHAKOTAY: What's the source?
KIM: Unknown. But it originated approximately twenty light years from our position. It looks like a shockwave in the fabric of space-time.
JANEWAY: Tom, get us out of here.
PARIS: We'll never outrun it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Maybe our new shields will help. All hands, brace for impact.
TUVOK: You were correct, Captain. The temporal shielding has protected us. The wave front has passed.
KIM: Captain.
(The Krenim warship shrinks before their eyes.)
CHAKOTAY: Report.
KIM: It's definitely a Krenim ship. Identical hull markings, same biospectral frequency, but it's half the size. Limited fire power.
JANEWAY: What happened to the warship?
PARIS: I'm not picking it up on long range sensors.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like this entire part of space has changed somehow. The last time I checked, this region was filled with Krenim colonies and vessels. I just ran a scan and sensors show no colonies and just a handful of Krenim ships.
JANEWAY: Harry, transfer all your sensor data about that shockwave to the Astrometrics lab.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Tell Seven of Nine to meet me there.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Astrometrics took heavy damage a few days go. It's offline.
JANEWAY: Well, let's get it back online. It appears that the Krenim Imperium has vanished. Our troubles could be over and I'd like to find out why.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

OBRIST: Something went wrong. The entire Krenim Imperium, it's reverted to a pre-warp state.
ANNORAX: Not possible. Our calculations were perfect.
OBRIST: I may have an explanation. There's an anomalous temporal reading twenty light years from here. It's coming from a vessel.
ANNORAX: What vessel?
OBRIST: Component zero four nine beta. A ship called Voyager.
ANNORAX: That ship was classified as an inert component. It shouldn't be generating a temporal field.
OBRIST: But it is. And it was enough to throw off our calculations.
ANNORAX: Take me to them.

Day 70

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Sensors are online. Power levels are stable.
JANEWAY: Is the astrometric database still intact?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Display the scans we made of this region before the temporal shockwave hit.
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five.
(With four coloured areas, one much larger than the others.)
JANEWAY: The Krenim Imperium. Over two hundred star systems, nine hundred planets, thousands of warp capable vessels. And now, after the shockwave, everything seems to have changed. Run a new scan.
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five.
(The big area shrinks.)
JANEWAY: Same space, different configuration, exactly as Chakotay said. The Imperium appears to have been reduced to a few planets, and a smattering of vessels. It appears that someone or something has altered history. But why weren't we affected?
SEVEN: Perhaps we were protected from the changes by our temporal shielding.
JANEWAY: So the question remains. What caused that shockwave in the first place? See if you can track it back to its origin.
SEVEN: The shockwave emanated from a planet twenty light years away. The Garenor homeworld.
JANEWAY: The Garenor? We passed their planet three weeks ago.
SEVEN: The planet is no longer populated.
JANEWAY: What?
SEVEN: Astrometric data indicate that the instant the shockwave appeared the Garenor species vanished.
JANEWAY: Erased from history.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm no authority on time travel, in fact I've made it my goal in life to avoid it, but this sounds to me like a causality paradox. Think about it. A temporal shock wave eliminates a single species and all of history changes as a result.
SEVEN: An intriguing theory. Perhaps the Krenim are responsible. They do possess temporal technology.
JANEWAY: But why would they alter history to undermine themselves? No, we're still missing a big piece of the puzzle. Run another scan of the
(Rumble! The Time ship dwarfs Voyager as it arrives overhead.)

[Krenim Timeship- Bridge]

OBRIST: Scanning the vessel. Their defensive shielding is generating a level nine temporal disruption.
ANNORAX: Collect samples. Two lifeforms, ten square metres of the hull.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: Disable their shielding. Prepare to initiate a temporal incursion.

[Bridge]

KIM: That entire vessel's in a state of temporal flux. It's like they exist outside space-time.
PARIS: They're scanning us.
(Chakotay and Paris disappear.)
JANEWAY: Get a lock on them.
KIM: I'm trying, but I can't isolate their signals.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: State your identity.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. Who are you, and where are my men?
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: I am Annorax of the Krenim Imperium. We've transferred your crewmen to my vessel for further analysis. Your ship does not come from this quadrant.
JANEWAY: We come from Earth, a planet sixty five thousand light years from here. We're on our way home.
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: I see.
JANEWAY: We've been observing some rather unusual events in the region. It seems your Imperium never existed. Perhaps you could shed some light on this?
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: That doesn't concern you. What is important is that you understand that I bear you no hostility. But you have diverted me from my mission.
JANEWAY: Your mission? You're responsible for the changes in the timeline.
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: You're a long way from your world. In a manner of speaking, so am I. Unfortunately, only one of us can go home again. Your sacrifice will restore the lives of countless millions. I'm sorry.
(Transmission ends.)
KIM: I'm reading a massive energy build-up. Some kind of weapon.
JANEWAY: Shields.
(The time incursion beam is aimed directly at Voyager.)
SEVEN: Temporal shields are weakening.
KIM: Captain, that energy beam. It's pushing Voyager out of the space-time continuum.
JANEWAY: He's trying to erase us from history.
SEVEN: I've scanned their propulsion system. Their vessel's mass prevents them from exceeding warp six. We can escape.
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you our structural integrity is still impaired. If we go to warp now, the damage to Voyager will be extreme.
KIM: What about Tom and Chakotay?
JANEWAY: We'll have to come back for them. All hands clear the outer sections and prepare for wide-scale breaches. Tuvok, activate the transverse bulkheads.
SEVEN: Temporal shields are failing.
JANEWAY: Engage warp seven.
KIM: They're not in pursuit.
TUVOK: We're losing the outer hull. Transverse bulkheads are holding.
(Pieces of hull fly off into the camera.)

Day 73

[Mess hall]

(The whole crew is gathered. That is not a lot of people.)
JANEWAY: Each of you has done their best, but determination alone isn't going to hold this ship together. It's time we faced reality. We've lost nine decks. More than half the ship has been destroyed. Life support is nearly gone. Voyager can no longer sustain it's crew. I promised myself that I would never give this order, that I would never break up this family, but asking you to stay would be asking you to die. You will proceed to the escape pods and evacuate this vessel. Set your course for the Alpha Quadrant. Along the way, try to find allies. Secure faster ships, if you can. Anything to get home. The senior staff and I will remain on board as long as possible. We will try somehow to rescue Tom and Chakotay. The escape pods are equipped with subspace beacons. That's how we'll keep track of you. When we find each other again, (she knocks on a table) and we will, we will find each other again, I expect all of you to be in one piece with some interesting stories to tell. Good luck.
(The escape pods are ejected.)

To Be Continued...


S4 E9
Year of Hell Part 2
Stardate: 51268.4 - 51252.3
Original Airdate: 12 November 1997

Day 133

Captain's log, stardate 51425.4. Our condition has left us vulnerable to spatial anomalies and to any alien species eager for a piece of hardware. We've taken refuge in a class nine nebula.

[Corridor]

(Deep purple gas has filled the corridor. Janeway and Kim are wearing gasmasks and using wrist beacons to see.)
JANEWAY: Come on. Don't do this to me now. Emergency forcefields are holding. How the hell did all this gas get inside?
KIM: Looks like a malfunction in the ventilation system. Okay, I'm going to try reversing the osmotic pressure on this deck. Whoa! The gas corroded the circuit relays.
JANEWAY: Let's bypass.
KIM: We've got three minutes of air left.
JANEWAY: How long can you hold your breath?

[Bridge]

EMH: Ensign Kim found time to be treated. So can you.
JANEWAY: How is Harry?
EMH: He'll be fine, but I'm surprised he didn't asphyxiate. I told you eight minutes on that deck, not eight and a half, not nine, and certainly not twelve.
JANEWAY: Would you rather have an indoor nebula? If we didn't stop it then and there, it would have flooded another two decks. B'Elanna, engines?
TORRES: Not yet Captain. One of the warp nacelles is still offline. The other one's a lost cause.
JANEWAY: Route all available power to the good one.
EMH: The alveoli in your lungs have been chemically burned. I want you off your feet for the next forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Impossible. I've got too much work to do.
EMH: There are seven other crew members on board. You're the captain. Delegate.
JANEWAY: Inject me with trioxin. That should help me breathe a little easier. B'Elanna, stand by for the transfer.
TORRES: Right.
EMH: Trioxin is used in emergency situations as a stop-gap measure. Your lungs have suffered serious damage. They need to be treated properly. Doctor's orders.
JANEWAY: Captain's orders. Trioxin. Now.
EMH: Aye, aye. It's your body. Who am I to judge? I'm only the Chief Medical officer. What do I know?
JANEWAY: Thank you. Now, where were we?

[Krenim Timeship - Annorax' chambers]

(The bearded and dishevelled Chakotay is dragged from his cell. He arrives at Annorax' room clean-shaven and in fresh clothing.)
ANNORAX: Well, you look rested.
CHAKOTAY: Where's my crewmate?
ANNORAX: He should have been here by now. No doubt he's making himself difficult. I've never seen such an intransigent young man.
CHAKOTAY: You've had us in isolation for two months. We've been scanned, poked and prodded. How do you expect us to act?
ANNORAX: With some degree of dignity and restraint. Your crewmate has none.
CHAKOTAY: What do you want from us?
ANNORAX: At the moment, information.
(Paris enters, also in casual attire.)
PARIS: Anything for such a charming host. Are you all right?
ANNORAX: The galley has prepared a selection of unique delicacies. You won't find them anywhere else in the galaxy. Please, join me.
(The table is spread with a banquet. Paris and Chakotay sit.)
ANNORAX: Malkothian spirits. An extremely rare vintage. The only bottle known to exist. Your captain said that your vessel is trying to reach home. I hadn't realised how far your home was. You're an anomalous component. Alone, disconnected, impossible to predict. You have no idea how you've complicated my mission.
PARIS: Glad to hear it.
ANNORAX: When I first encountered your vessel, it was badly damaged, barely functioning. What if I told you that in the blink of an eye I could restore Voyager to its former condition, that you and I would never have met. that you might even find yourself closer to the Alpha Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: By using the weapon on this ship to alter history?
ANNORAX: Yes. I can control the destiny of a single molecule or an entire civilisation. How's the wine?
CHAKOTAY: Excellent.
ANNORAX: This bottle is the only component left of the once powerful Malkoth race. Everything else about them, cities, culture, the very species itself never existed, because of me. Every dish you see here comes from a civilisation that has been erased from time. Mister Paris, you're devouring the last remnants of the Alsuran Empire. I have collected artefacts from hundreds of worlds. This vessel is more than a weapon. It's a museum of lost histories. You two gentlemen almost became artefacts yourselves, but I've decided to spare your vessel.
PARIS: Why?
ANNORAX: Call it an act of compassion. You're trying to reach home. In a way, so am I. We can work together to achieve both our goals.
CHAKOTAY: What do you propose?
ANNORAX: In order to make the calculations required to restore Voyager, I need to know about some of your experiences in this quadrant. What species you interacted with, how other components were affected by your presence.
PARIS: You can't find her, can you? I think Captain Janeway has been eluding you for the past two months. Otherwise you would've destroyed Voyager by now.
ANNORAX: I'm offering you a way out of this situation. You accept my offer, or when I do find Voyager I will destroy it.
PARIS: And how many civilisations will you have to erase to send us merrily on our way? No thanks. We don't want that kind of blood on our hands.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, hold on. You said you could control the destiny of a single molecule. If you made a precise enough calculation, could you restore Voyager without harming anyone?
ANNORAX: It is possible, but it's extremely difficult. That's why I need your cooperation.
PARIS: I'd rather spend a year in solitary confinement than listen to any of this.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, have a seat.
PARIS: Chakotay, we can't trust him.
ANNORAX: You're correct. Given the circumstances, there is no reason to trust me. But trust isn't necessary. We need each other.
(Annorax summons Obrist.)
ANNORAX: Obrist, show our guest to his new quarters. I'll do everything in my power to make you comfortable here, Mister Paris. All I ask in return is that you keep an open mind.
(Obrist and Paris leave.)
ANNORAX: I was very impressed with your question. You seem to understand the subtleties of time.
CHAKOTAY: Professor Vassbinder might've disagreed with you. I failed his course in temporal mechanics.
ANNORAX: Beyond study and instrumentation, there is instinct. Not everyone has the ability to truly perceive time. Its colours, its moods. Perhaps you do.
CHAKOTAY: I'm certainly willing to give it a try.

[Mess hall]

(The remaining senior staff are seated around one table. They raise their cups.)
TORRES: To distant friends.
NEELIX: To friends.
JANEWAY: Hear, hear.
KIM: Cheers.
SEVEN: Yes.
(Kim takes a sip.)
NEELIX: Well?
TUVOK: Interesting.
KIM: Not bad. Not bad at all.
TORRES: What is it exactly?
NEELIX: I call it the Elixir of Endurance. It's loaded with amino acids, carbohydrates, all the nutrients necessary for the crew to withstand these stressful conditions.
TORRES: Ration cubes.
NEELIX: Well, yes, yes. But this time, pureed and mixed with water and enhanced with Talaxian spices.
SEVEN: It is offensive. Fortunately taste is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Well, it's been a few days since we've gathered in one place. Now's a good time to catch up. How are the repairs proceeding?
EMH: I'm happy to report that I've repaired the optronic error in my programme.
JANEWAY: And the power grid?
KIM: We're operating at thirty two percent efficiency. I think I can bring it up to fifty, but I'll need a few more days.
JANEWAY: Warp drive?
TORRES: I'm still having trouble with the starboard nacelle.
JANEWAY: How long?
TORRES: Three weeks. Minimum.
JANEWAY: I thought this nebula would be a safe haven until we finished repairs, but it's turning into a permanent residence. We've got to get back into open space, find allies, put together a fighting force to take on Annorax. We're leaving this damn cloud first thing tomorrow morning.
SEVEN: Captain, you are in error.
JANEWAY: Really?
SEVEN: At the moment this vessel is defenceless. We should remain here until we are functioning at our peak efficiency.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your opinion, Seven, but I disagree. We leave tomorrow, oh eight hundred hours.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: It is inappropriate to contradict the captain in front of the crew.
SEVEN: That was not my intention. I simply pointed out that her decision was wrong.
TUVOK: In your view.
SEVEN: And yours. I know you well enough to say that.
TUVOK: Then you should also know that my trust in Captain Janeway is absolute. The decision you or I might have made is irrelevant.
SEVEN: As a Borg, I submitted to a single authority, the Collective. Over the past several months I've been encouraged to think and act as an individual. It is difficult to know when to restrain myself.
TUVOK: Remember this guideline. The captain is always right.
SEVEN: Even when you know her logic is flawed?
TUVOK: Perhaps.

Day 161

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Component 37329, a rogue comet. About eight months ago, Voyager made a course correction to avoid the comet. According to my calculations, it led to our entering Krenim space.
ANNORAX: The solution, then, would be to erase that comet from history.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. Voyager would have stayed on its course and bypassed Krenim space altogether.
ANNORAX: Sounds simple enough. Conduct a simulation.
CHAKOTAY: Temporal incursion in progress. What happened?
ANNORAX: Had you actually eradicated that comet, all life within fifty light years would never have existed. Congratulations, You almost wiped out eight thousand civilisations.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't consider the entire history of the comet.
ANNORAX: Four billion years ago, fragments from that comet impacted a planet. Hydrocarbons from those fragments gave rise to several species of plant life, which in turn sustained more complex organisms. Ultimately several space-faring civilisations evolved and colonised the entire sector.
CHAKOTAY: By erasing the comet I altered all evolution in this region.
ANNORAX: Past, present and future. They exist as one. They breathe together. You're not the only person to make this mistake. When I first constructed this weapon ship, I turned it against our greatest enemy, the Rilnar. The result was miraculous. With the Rilnar gone from history, my people, in an instant, became powerful again. But there were problems. A rare disease broke out among our colonies. Within a year, fifty million were dead. I had failed to realise that the Rilnar had introduced a crucial antibody into the Krenim genome, and my weapon had eliminated that antibody as well.
CHAKOTAY: And you've been trying to undo that damage ever since. But each time you pull out a new thread, another one begins to unravel.
ANNORAX: You can't imagine the burden of memory that I carry. Thousands of worlds, billions of lives, gone, brought back, gone again. I try to rationalise the loss. They're not really being destroyed, because they never existed. Sometimes I can almost convince myself.
CHAKOTAY: You've been at this for two hundred years, Annorax. What makes you think you're ever going to succeed?
ANNORAX: What makes you think Voyager will ever reach Earth? The odds against you are astronomical, yet you keep trying.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. But we don't destroy everything that stands in our way.
ANNORAX: You can help me to change that, Chakotay. Together, we'll restore the Krenim and Voyager and we'll undo the damage that I've caused.
CHAKOTAY: I've still got a lot to learn.
ANNORAX: Come. It's time I show you the heart of this vessel. The temporal core.

Day 180

[Bridge]

(Out of the nebula, and space dust is raining down on the battered spaceship.)
JANEWAY: Engines.
TORRES: I'm doing my best.
KIM: Captain, with the deflector down those micrometeoroids are beginning to erode the hull.
JANEWAY: Emergency power to the deflector.
TUVOK: None available.
JANEWAY: I'll be in deflector control.
TUVOK: Captain. That entire section has been designated hazard level four.
JANEWAY: I know.

[Outside Deflector control]

(Janeway forces the doors open but is pushed back by the heat.)
JANEWAY: Oh, why do I get the feeling you're testing me, Voyager? Bridge, there's a fire in deflector control. Any luck with the engines?

[Bridge]

TORRES: The warp core's still offline.
KIM: Micro-meteoroid density

[Outside Deflector control]

KIM [OC]: Is increasing. The nacelle pylon is buckling.
(Janeway picks up a shield-sized piece of metal.)
JANEWAY: Bridge, I'm going in. Stand by to engage the deflector. Tell the Doctor I'll be coming 

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Back with severe burns.
TUVOK: Captain.

[Outside Deflector control]

JANEWAY: Do it. Be kind.

[Bridge]

KIM: The captain's accessed manual control. She's stabilising the particle emitters. She's got it! Deflectors online!
TUVOK: Activating deflector field. Bridge to Janeway. Captain, please respond.
(Janeway is unconscious, and badly burnt.)

[Mess hall]

(The EMH uses a  hypo to wake her.)
JANEWAY: What's my condition?
EMH: You suffered third degree burns to approximately sixty percent of your body. I've healed most of them, but without a dermal regenerator I couldn't repair all the damage to your skin. You've been left with scars on your face and arms.
JANEWAY: I'll consider them mementos.
EMH: Not so fast. You're spending the next few days here with me.
JANEWAY: What for?
EMH: Observation.
JANEWAY: Is there something else wrong with me?
EMH: Not physically.
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting?
EMH: Traumatic stress syndrome. Symptoms. Irritability, sleeplessness, obsessional thoughts, reckless behaviour. All of which you've demonstrated over the last few weeks.
JANEWAY: My only obsession is with saving my ship, my people. If I've been taking some reckless chances in order to do that, it's hardly a medical condition.
EMH: I'm not going to stand here while you rationalise yet another brush with death.
JANEWAY: You don't have to.
EMH: As Chief Medical Officer, I have the authority to relieve you of your command.
JANEWAY: You're not going to do that.
EMH: If, in my medical opinion, your judgment has been impaired, I can. And I will.
JANEWAY: Try it and I'll shut down your programme.
EMH: That threat in itself is evidence of your unstable condition.
JANEWAY: I am sorry, Doctor. I've been operating on instinct for so long I did not think before I spoke. I have no intention of deactivating you. But I won't stay in this mess hall.
EMH: Is that final?
JANEWAY: Final.
EMH: Then you leave me no choice. Captain Kathryn Janeway, under Starfleet medical regulation one twenty one, section A, I, the Chief Medical Officer, do hereby relieve you of your active command, effective immediately. Have a seat.
JANEWAY: How do you plan to implement this protocol, Doctor? Mister Tuvok doesn't have a security team, both the brigs have been destroyed, and with the internal forcefields offline you'll have a hell of a time keeping me confined. You'd better grab a phaser, because before I give up command you'll have to shoot me.
EMH: You realise this incident will be noted in my official logs. By refusing my orders you risk a general court martial.
JANEWAY: Compared to what I've been through the past few months, a court martial would be a small price to pay. If we make it back home I'll be happy to face the music.

Day 207

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Another ruptured EPS conduit.
NEELIX: Thirty two so far.
JANEWAY: Thirty three, thirty four, thirty five. And that fluidic converter needs to be purged.
NEELIX: Right.
JANEWAY: The gravitational plating in this room has buckled.
NEELIX: Chakotay's quarters.

[Chakotay's quarters]

(Janeway scans the wreckage and finds the pocket watch.)
JANEWAY: You disobeyed orders.
NEELIX: Captain?
JANEWAY: Chakotay gave this to me five months ago. A birthday gift. I ordered him to
(She uses the heavy chain to secure the watch to her trousers.)
JANEWAY: What do you think?
NEELIX: Handsome.
JANEWAY: Come on.

[Krenim Timeship - Paris' quarters]

(Paris and Obrist are playing some kind of game.)
OBRIST: Astounding.
PARIS: Not really. I get lucky now and again.
OBRIST: Your end game sequence, it, er, it was the same one favoured by my brother.
PARIS: To quote a long lost friend of mine, it seemed logical. Now what?
OBRIST: I used to honour the day of his birth.
PARIS: Who?
OBRIST: My brother. And my parents, my closest friends. Every year at first. Then one day I realised a century had passed, and for years I had been celebrating birthdays for the dead. Or for people who never even existed.
PARIS: I'm sorry.

[Krenim Timeship - Chakotay's quarters]

(Chakotay is working at a Krenim PADD when Paris enters.)
PARIS: You can put that thing down, Chakotay. No need to strain your eyes anymore, I've got a plan.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hear it.
PARIS: This ship's temporal core keeps the vessel out of phase with normal space-time, but it's shields are incredibly weak. You take that core offline, and a photon grenade could penetrate the hull.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know all this?
PARIS: I've been spending time with our friend Obrist, who seems more than willing to share information. And that's not all. Does the name Captain Bligh mean anything to you? This is not a happy crew. They've been at this for two hundred years now. They're tired of it, Chakotay. They want it to end.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Tom. But I'm not quite ready to start a mutiny. Keep gathering information, lie low. I'm starting to make progress on the temporal calculations. With a little time and luck I think we can get the Krenim back on their feet, and Voyager back to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: You're starting to sound like Annorax. Always one more calculation. This time it's going to be perfect.
CHAKOTAY: This can work. If you'd take the time to listen you'd understand what Annorax is trying to do.
PARIS: What? Wipe out civilisations to help his own race? I understand perfectly.
CHAKOTAY: It's more complicated than that. Annorax is an enlightened man. Misguided, but I think he wants this to end as much as anyone.
PARIS: I guess I don't have the instinct for Time, or whatever it is Captain Nemo out there calls it. Chakotay, he's been flattering you and it's gone to your head.
CHAKOTAY: You're out of line, Lieutenant
PARIS: Maybe I shouldn't start a mutiny, but I might be able to get Obrist to help us send a message to Captain Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. If you get caught, we lose everything. I can get us out of this.
PARIS: Not if I get us out of here first.
CHAKOTAY: You're not doing anything against Annorax. That's an order.
PARIS: What are you going to do, take away my holodeck privileges?
CHAKOTAY: Either we maintain our command structure, or else we settle our differences the old fashioned way.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

(An alarm is sounding.)
CHAKOTAY: What's happening?
ANNORAX: We're preparing for a temporal incursion.
CHAKOTAY: What incursion? You didn't say anything about
ANNORAX: I had an inspiration last night. By my calculations the eradication of the Ram Izad species will result in a fifty two percent restoration of the Krenim timeline.
CHAKOTAY: I thought we were working to avoid more destruction.
ANNORAX: When Time offers you an opportunity you don't ignore it.
OBRIST: We're within range of their homeworld.
ANNORAX: Take us into orbit. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure.
PARIS: Is this what you call enlightened?
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Locked.
CHAKOTAY: Please. This isn't necessary. We'll find another way.
ANNORAX: Fire. Trace elements?
OBRIST: Diminishing.
ANNORAX: Counter indications?
OBRIST: None so far.
ANNORAX: Scan the continuum. Bring me the results once they're complete.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: I'll be in my chambers.
(Annorax leaves.)
PARIS: Have you seen enough yet, Chakotay? If you don't do something about this maniac, I will.

[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's chambers]

CHAKOTAY: You didn't need to fire on that planet.
ANNORAX: I'm altering history on a massive scale. The destinies of countless star systems are in my hands. The fate of one species is insignificant.
CHAKOTAY: You're trying to rationalise genocide. One species is significant. A single life is significant.
ANNORAX: It seemed so easy the first time. In the blink of an eye, I had changed history itself. Allowed my people to thrive again. But when I changed history a second time, I lost more than you can imagine.
CHAKOTAY: The colony on Kyana Prime.
ANNORAX: How could you know that?
CHAKOTAY: I've been studying your previous incursions. No matter how close you get to restoring the timeline, one component is always missing. Kyana Prime. Who was on that colony? Who did you lose?
ANNORAX: My wife. And with her, my future. My children, grandchildren, all erased because of me. This is all I have left of her.
(A lock of hair in the pyramid.)
ANNORAX: So many years I worked through the night while she was sleeping. How could I have known I was calculating her fate? I can't stop until I've restored Kyana Prime, and forced Time to give me back my wife.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it isn't possible.
ANNORAX: When I tell that Time has moods, a disposition to be intuited, I'm not speaking metaphorically.
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean?
ANNORAX: Anger is one of it's moods. Anger and the desire for retribution, vengeance. Time itself has tried to punish me for my arrogance. It has kept me from my wife, denied me my future.
(Obrist enters.)
OBRIST: Sir, we've achieved a fifty two percent restoration.
ANNORAX: Kyana Prime?
OBRIST: Negative, sir.
ANNORAX: Resume scanning the continuum.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
(Obrist leaves.)
ANNORAX: I've, er, I've studied your calculations, Chakotay. They're promising, but premature. We'll keep working on them. In the meantime, my mission must continue.
CHAKOTAY: You don't have the right.
ANNORAX: To fight for what is mine? That's not for you to decide. Only Time can pronounce judgment against me.

[Krenim Timeship - Chakotay's quarters]

PARIS: If that little display doesn't convince you I don't know what will. He's insane.
CHAKOTAY: No he's not, Wounded, maybe, even tortured, but I can still reach him, convince him to stop.
PARIS: Not from what you've told me. This guy thinks that Time has a personal grudge against him. That's called paranoia, Chakotay, with a hint of megalomania.
CHAKOTAY: You don't know what he's been through.
PARIS: He's lost his family. Okay, that's a terrible thing. But so has everyone else on this ship. And frankly, so have we.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of progress have you made?
PARIS: Obrist is coming around, and I think we can trust him. He says he'll give me access to their communications array. I can send a message to Voyager from the comfort of my own quarters.
CHAKOTAY: And the temporal core?
PARIS: That's going to be a little trickier. With Obrist's help, I'm pretty sure I can disable it, but not without setting off every alarm on the ship. We're only going to have one chance.
CHAKOTAY: It'll require precise timing. You and me working from within.
PARIS: And Captain Janeway attacking from Voyager. That is, if the captain's still alive.
CHAKOTAY: She's alive. Send the message. Transmit our coordinates.
PARIS: Done.
CHAKOTAY: And, give Kathryn my best.

Day 226

Captain's log, stardate 51682.2. I've forged a coalition with the Nihydron and the Mawasi. Together, we're preparing to attack the weapon ship.

[Bridge]

(There are two ships from each species with Voyager.)
JANEWAY: I've analysed every carrier frequency of their transmission. It contains a classified Starfleet ID code. It could only have come from Tom Paris. It's real. The coordinates he sent should lead us directly to the weapon ship.
TUVOK: Location?
JANEWAY: Approximately fifty light years from here. Our new allies are assembling reinforcements. Once we're in range, Tom says he'll try to take the weapon ship's temporal core offline. When that happens they'll be vulnerable to conventional weapons. Tom will then transmit the exact location of the core. Our job will be to disable the ship and get our people out. Is everyone clear?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, Harry, I want you to beam over to the Nihydron vessel. Work with their engineers. The entire fleet needs to be equipped with temporal shielding.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, Neelix, Seven. You'll be working on the Mawasi ship.
NEELIX: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor, once the attack begins, your skills will no doubt be required. Join Tuvok's team.
EMH: What about yourself?
JANEWAY: I'll be piloting Voyager, coordinating the attack.
TORRES: Captain, there's barely enough of this ship left to get there, much less wage a war.
JANEWAY: There's fight in Voyager yet. It's still got temporal shields, six photon torpedoes. It'll hold together. Besides, you know the adage. Captain goes down with the ship, right? You have your orders. Dismissed. Tuvok, I can hear your objections already. I am not leaving.
TUVOK: Given Voyager's damaged state, the probability of your surviving an armed conflict is marginal.
JANEWAY: Oh, I know the odds. But I have to stay. Voyager's done too much for us.
TUVOK: Curious. I have never understood the human compulsion to emotionally bond with inanimate objects. This vessel has done nothing. It is an assemblage of bulkheads, conduits, tritanium. Nothing more.
JANEWAY: Oh, you're wrong. It's much more than that. This ship has been our home. It's kept us together. It's been part of our family. As illogical as this might sound, I feel as close to Voyager as I do to any other member of my crew. It's carried us, Tuvok. Even nurtured us. And right now it needs one of us.
TUVOK: I respect your decision. Live long and prosper, Captain.
(Tuvok raises his hand in Vulcan salute. Janeway strokes his face.)
JANEWAY: Same to you, old friend.
(Janeway hugs Tuvok. He reciprocates, slightly. Then Janeway lets Seven lead him away. Janeway looks at the watch at her waist, then Chakotay's empty chair, and sits down.)

Day 257

[Bridge]

(Janeway is at the helm.)
JANEWAY: Voyager to Mawasi vessel.
TUVOK [OC]: Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm picking up the weapon ship dead ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: Confirmed.
JANEWAY: Temporal shields status.
TUVOK [OC]: All vessels are bringing them online.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway to the fleet. Plot an intercept course to the weapon ship.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

OBRIST: Sir, six vessels are approaching our position.
ANNORAX: Identify.
OBRIST: Three Nihydron warships, two Mawasi cruisers, and Voyager.
ANNORAX: We're outside space-time, impervious to their weapons. Let them come.
CHAKOTAY: I know Captain Janeway. She wouldn't be attacking unless she knew she could do some damage.
(Obrist sends a message to Paris' quarters.)

[Krenim Timeship - Paris' quarters]

PARIS: Good work, Obrist.
(Paris relays the information.)

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: If she's given the other ships temporal shielding, they've undoubtedly informed their home worlds. They'll be able to protect their planets against your weapon.
ANNORAX: Bring the weapon to full power. Stand by for multiple incursions. We'll have to disable their temporal shields first. Make the necessary calculations.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: All vessels report ready.
JANEWAY: Let's see if Tom has done his part. Janeway to the fleet. Attack pattern Omega. Engage.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

ANNORAX: Condition?
OBRIST: No damage. Temporal core is stable.
ANNORAX: Return fire.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: Captain, two Nihydron vessels have been destroyed.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the fleet. Evasive pattern Delta. We're going to have to wait. Come on, Tom. Come on.
(Paris is still working.)

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

ANNORAX: Target the other vessels. Obrist, I said target the vessels. You're deactivating the temporal core.
OBRIST: I'm sorry, sir. It's over.
(Obrist beams Chakotay and Paris away.)
ANNORAX: Get back to your stations. You will not disobey me. We're phasing back into normal space-time. Reconfigure to conventional weapons.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: Captain, Chakotay and Paris were beamed aboard our vessel.
JANEWAY: Everything's going as planned. Tom sent me the coordinates of their temporal core before he left. I'm transmitting them to you now.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

OBRIST: Conventional weapons are online and fully charged, sir.
ANNORAX: Fire at will.
(A damaged cruiser crashes into Voyager. Fires break out everywhere and Janeway is knocked across the deck. She crawls back to the Captain's chair. There is a big hole where the viewscreen used to be, and only a forcefield between her and a close view of Annorax' ship.)
OBRIST: Sir, weapons are back to full capacity.
ANNORAX: Target Voyager. Put Janeway out of her misery.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: All our ships have been disabled, Captain. Do you have weapons?
JANEWAY: Negative. Torpedo launchers are down. I'm setting a collision course. Janeway to the fleet. Take your temporal shields offline.
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, we won't be protected.
JANEWAY: Exactly. If that ship is destroyed all of history might be restored. And this is one year I'd like to forget. Time's up.
(Voyager ploughs into its mortal enemy with a big KaBOOM!)

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]

(Annorax and his crew pick themselves up from the deck.)
ANNORAX: The core is destabilising. It's going to cause a temporal incursion within the ship.
(The pyramid falls off the console and breaks. The lock of hair vanishes, then the Time ship explodes and implodes. Now that's how to press a big red Reset button.)

Day 1

Captain's log, Stardate 51252.3. The past couple of weeks have been uneventful but we've made excellent progress on the new Astrometrics lab.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: When can you bring it online?
SEVEN: We just did.
KIM: In fact, we're in the process of charting a new course home.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say this is cause for celebration.
TUVOK: A vessel is approaching off the port bow, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: They're hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You've entered Krenim space. State your identity.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We're just passing through, trying to get home.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: This region is in dispute. I suggest you avoid our territory.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning.
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Good journey.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, plot a course around Krenim space.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: So, what do you think? How about a ground-breaking ceremony for our new lab?
KIM: Sounds great.
JANEWAY: I think I'll replicate a bottle of Saint Emillion for the occasion. 2370. I hear that was a good year.

[Kyana Prime Colony]

ANNORAX'S WIFE: Good morning.
ANNORAX: Good morning.
ANNORAX'S WIFE: Join me for breakfast?
ANNORAX: In a little while. I still have a few more calculations.
(He is working on two PADDs at the same time.)
ANNORAX'S WIFE: There are always a few more calculations. It's a beautiful day. Spend it with me.
ANNORAX: I suppose I can make the time.


S4 E10
Random Thoughts
Stardate: 51367.2
Original Airdate: 19 November 1997

Captain's log, stardate 51367.2: We've spent the last three days on the Mari homeworld. It's been a while since we've had the opportunity to make new friends and the crew seems to be making the most of our stay.
[Transporter room]

(Paris gets off the transporter pad carrying a large brown package.)
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: Tom. Been doing a little shopping?
PARIS: It's a present for B'Elanna.
NEELIX: What is it?
PARIS: Well, it's sort of personal.
NEELIX: Of course. Say no more. I'm on my way for a little romantic rendezvous myself.
(Paris sniffs the air, then Neelix.)
PARIS: Neelix, are you wearing cologne?
NEELIX: Talchok musk. Very enticing scent, don't you think?
PARIS: Well, it certainly is musky.
NEELIX: I'm going to see Talli again.
PARIS: Ooo, that was fast work. Where are you taking her?
NEELIX: Well, actually I haven't gotten that far yet. I'm going to visit her shop under the pretext of buying some produce for the ship, and then I thought I'd just sort of segue smoothly into some dinner and dancing.
PARIS: Sounds like a good strategy.
NEELIX: Do you really think so? I mean, you used to be quite the lady's man.
PARIS: Used to be?
NEELIX: I mean, of course, you're involved now, so you won't be availing yourself of all the beautiful, fascinating and very open-minded Mari women.
PARIS: Neelix, are you trying to depress me?
NEELIX: I just, I haven't been with anyone since Kes, and I'm feeling a little rusty. I could use some advice.
PARIS: The best advice I can give you is to just be yourself.
NEELIX: Right. Be myself.
PARIS: Actually, that's the second best piece of advice.
NEELIX: What's the first?
PARIS: Go a little easier on the musk.

[Market place]

(Janeway is haggling over the price of metal ittems.)
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Mister Guill, but that's my final offer.
GUILL: Actually, Captain, I sense you'd be willing to raise your price to three hundred renns. Lieutenant Torres needs this resonator coil to upgrade Voyager's communications systems.
TORRES: Telepaths.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. I sense you'd be willing to settle for two fifty.
GUILL: You must have read my mind.
(A man bumps into Torres, stepping on her foot.)
TORRES: Ow! Ow! Hey!
FRANE: I'm sorry.
GUILL: Are you hurt?
TORRES: No, no, I'm fine. I just wish people would look where they're going.
GUILL: It's been a pleasure doing business with you.
JANEWAY: I'll finish up here. Why don't you go get Neelix?
(Janeway struggles with the concept of coinage. Neelix is at Talli's fruit stall.)
NEELIX: This is some of the loveliest fruit I've seen in a long time.
TALLI: Actually it's been one of our worst water plum seasons in years. I don't think you'll find them very sweet.
(Neelix tries one.)
NEELIX: Oh, how wonderfully tart. They'll make excellent preserves.
TALLI: Neelix? Why do you want me to tug on your whiskers?
NEELIX: Excuse me?
TALLI: That is what you're thinking, isn't it? That you'd like me to tug on your whiskers?
NEELIX: Well, as a matter of fact
TALLI: I'd love to. Do you have time to wait until I close?
NEELIX: Yes, I think I can rearrange my schedule. 

[Walkway]

(Overlooking the market place. Tuvok is walking with a woman in a blue uniform.)
NIMIRA: I guess you could say I'm becoming obsolete.
TUVOK: In what sense?
NIMIRA: There's virtually no crime left in our society. It took many years, but just walk through our streets, look around. Violence no longer exists.
TUVOK: Impressive.
(They go down the stairs to the market place.)
NIMIRA: I'm one of the last officers still working for the Constabulary.
TUVOK: And no doubt one of the best. I'm curious to know more about your crime prevention methods.
NIMIRA: Under one condition: I want to see Voyager. Learn about your methods. 

[Market place]

TUVOK: I am about to perform my daily security rounds. Join me. They are routine but informative.
NIMIRA: Wonderful
TUVOK: The transport site is this way.
NIMIRA [telepathically]: You prefer speaking aloud. Why is that?
TUVOK [telepathically]: I've grown accustomed to it over the years. There are very few telepaths in Starfleet.
NIMIRA: Whatever you prefer.
TORRES: Neelix? Ready to leave?
NEELIX: Ah, no, ah, you go ahead. We haven't finished examining the produce.
(There is a big clatter and commotion.)
MAN [OC]: Help! Somebody help me please! Stop him! Help me!
(France, the man who bumped into Torres, is smashing the pots on a stall.)
FRANE: This will teach you to watch where you're going, you idiot! You idiot!
(Frane attacks the stall holder. Janeway and Neelix disarm him.)
TORRES: Somebody get a doctor!
JANEWAY: Why? Why were you beating that man?
FRANE: I don't know.

[Corridor]

(Tuvok and Nimira leave the brig.)
NIMIRA: Your brig, it's a puzzling concept. Shutting someone away as punishment. Do you find that it rehabilitates the prisoner?
TUVOK: The brig is primarily used as a means of ensuring the safety of others.
NIMIRA: In what sense?
TUVOK: For example, if we find ourselves with a hostile alien in our custody, we may need to confine the individual until we can locate the proper authorities.
NIMIRA: I see.
TUVOK: And on rare occasions we have been forced to incarcerate a crew member who has committed a serious infraction.
NIMIRA: I'm surprised that one of your people could be capable of doing something serious enough to warrant imprisonment.
TUVOK: It's extremely rare. In any case, the brig has been occupied for less than one percent of our journey.
NIMIRA: Forgive me, Tuvok, but it seems barbaric.
TUVOK [telepathically]: If all species were as enlightened as yours and mine, there would be no need for prisons.
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead, Ensign.
KIM [OC]: Chief Examiner

[Bridge]

KIM: Nimira's been recalled to the surface. There's been some sort of attack

[Corridor]

KIM [OC]: In the marketplace.

[Market place]

TALLI: I've never seen so much blood before.
NEELIX: It's all right.
TALLI: I heard about someone getting beaten once when I was a little girl.
NEELIX: It's all over now.
TALLI: I had nightmares for weeks.
NEELIX: It's okay. It's all right.
(Neelix comforts Talli.)
JANEWAY: He was confused. He said he didn't realise what he'd done.
TORRES: I don't understand why nobody tried to help him.
NIMIRA: People were shocked. Violence is almost unheard of here. But when it does occur, we like to investigate thoroughly.
JANEWAY: Can we help?
NIMIRA: Yes. I would like you, Mister Neelix and Lieutenant Torres to answer some questions.
JANEWAY: You have our complete cooperation.
TUVOK: Chief Examiner, are you suspicious of my colleagues for some reason?
NIMIRA: No, Lieutenant. I'm simply conducting an investigation. Please, follow me.

[Chief Examiner's office]

NIMIRA: Please, have a seat.
(The seat is a large one, with a device that wraps around the sitter's temples.)
NIMIRA:  I will be monitoring your thoughts telepathically during the interview. This transcription device will log your engrammatic activity so I can review your statement later.
JANEWAY: Let me get this straight. Not only are you going to read my mind, you're going to record my thoughts.
NIMIRA: Yes.
JANEWAY: I guess it'd be pretty tough to keep a secret from you, hmm?
(Janeway sits. Nimira turns on the device and pulls Janeway's head back against the rest before sitting at her own desk.)
NIMIRA: How long had you been in the market place when the attack occurred?
JANEWAY: An hour, maybe a little longer.
NIMIRA: And exactly where were you standing?
NEELIX: Directly across the square.
NIMIRA: From where you were, did you have a clear view of the attack?
NEELIX: Not at first. We just heard yelling, then as we got closer we saw what was happening.
NIMIRA: What exactly brought you to the market in the first place?
TORRES: Captain Janeway and I had an appointment with Mister Guill.
NIMIRA: For what purpose?
TORRES: We'd met him the day before. He's said he could get a spare resonator coil for us.
NIMIRA: I see. And the two men involved in the altercation. Had you seen either of them before?
JANEWAY: I'd never seen the victim, but the attacker. I think he was the same man who bumped into B'Elanna.
NIMIRA: Bumped into her? Are you certain?
JANEWAY: Yes. They collided accidentally.
NIMIRA: When exactly did this happen?
TORRES: Just as we'd settled on a price.
JANEWAY: He seemed to be in quite a hurry.
NIMIRA: Do you recall what you were thinking at the time?
TORRES: What I was thinking? What does it matter?
NIMIRA: Please, try to remember. It may be important.
JANEWAY: I didn't think about it much, and no one was hurt. And I was busy trying to sort out the coins. I'm not used to handling currency.
NEELIX: What was I thinking? I was thinking how I can make a delicious pie with those water plums.
NIMIRA: Are you sure that's all, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Yes, of course. What else would I be thinking about?
(Images of Tilla tugging his whispers. Must be similar to oo-mox for Ferengi, I suppose.)
TORRES: I suppose I was a little annoyed.
NIMIRA: Can you be more specific?
TORRES: All right. I guess I was thinking, my foot hurt. I mean, the idiot stepped right on it.
NIMIRA: Did you call him an idiot?
TORRES: Of course not.
NIMIRA: But you thought it?
TORRES: I guess so.
NIMIRA: Did you also think about retaliating?
TORRES: It was an accident.
NIMIRA: But you said he hurt you. It didn't occur to you to hurt him back?
TORRES: I'd never do that.
NIMIRA: But you thought about it.
TORRES: How am I supposed to remember?
NIMIRA: Yes or no. Did you think about hurting him? Yes or no?
TORRES: Well, maybe for a split second.
(Image of Torres hitting Frane for treading on her foot.)
TORRES: I mean, he should have been watching where he was going. But I realised that he didn't do it on purpose, so I shook it off and I left. Why? What does it matter what I was thinking?
NIMIRA: Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres, you are under arrest.
TORRES: On what charge?
NIMIRA: Aggravated violent thought resulting in grave bodily harm.
(Later -)
JANEWAY: Are you saying it's a crime to think about violence?
NIMIRA: Yes.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
NIMIRA: I assure you, it's quite necessary. We were once a society plagued by violence. When we prohibited hostile thought, crime began to drop immediately. Over the past three generations, it's all but disappeared.
TORRES: So you believe that it's all right to tell people what they can and cannot think?
NIMIRA: It's an irrefutable fact that violent thoughts from others can lead to violent actions.
JANEWAY: Even if B'Elanna had a violent thought, it was Frane who attacked that man.
NIMIRA: Which he only did because he telepathically received that thought from B'Elanna. His mind was contaminated by the image and it resulted in a loss of control. He may have committed the physical act, but it was instigated by you.
TORRES: Where we come from, people are responsible for their own actions.
NIMIRA: And here, people are responsible for their own thoughts. I'm sure you can understand how that's necessary for a race of telepaths.
JANEWAY: Yes, I can.
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll accept that your people can be influenced by the thoughts of others, but there were dozens of people in that square. How can you be certain it came from B'Elanna?
NIMIRA: The Mari no longer have violent thoughts. It's unlikely any of them could have been responsible. Besides, the evidence against B'Elanna is clear. She thought about committing a hostile act.
JANEWAY: I'd like to review that evidence myself, if you don't mind.
NIMIRA: Certainly. But I'm afraid you'll be disappointed.
JANEWAY: What happens to B'Elanna now?
NIMIRA: We have an enlightened penal system here. Unlike some, we don't lock people away to punish them. You'll be released. Once you've undergone the engrammatic purge.
TORRES: The what?
NIMIRA: It's a medical procedure that will identify and remove the offending images from your mind.
TORRES: Captain!
NIMIRA: Once identified, the images can be removed from Frane's mind as well.
JANEWAY: Memory extraction. That's a dangerous procedure.
NIMIRA: There is a risk of neurological damage, but it's necessary for us to treat Frane.
JANEWAY: Will you at least delay the procedure until I've had the time to review the evidence? Will you?
NIMIRA: It'll take us about a day to reconfigure our instruments. That's all the time I can give you.
JANEWAY: That's all the time I'll need.
(Torres is escorted away.)

[Transporter room]

(Janeway beams up, reading a PADD.)
PARIS: Captain, we've got to get B'Elanna out of there.
JANEWAY: You know the rules, Tom. We can't pick and choose which laws we'll respect and which we won't.

[Corridor]

PARIS: Nobody can be expected to control their thoughts.
JANEWAY: Tell that to the Mari.
PARIS: Are you just going to let them put her through this process?
JANEWAY: I'm doing everything I can to stop it. Neelix is going to file a diplomatic protest, and Tuvok and I will be going over the witness statements. Maybe we can poke a few holes in the Chief Examiner's case.
PARIS: And if you can't?
JANEWAY: Then let's hope the Doctor can figure out how to reverse an engrammatic purge.

[Bridge]

KIM: All away personnel have been told to return to the ship as soon as possible.
CHAKOTAY: So much for R and R.
(Paris enters.)
PARIS: Chakotay, we've got to talk.
CHAKOTAY: Have a seat.
PARIS: Here?
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure the captain wouldn't object. What's on your mind?
PARIS: While Tuvok and the captain are reviewing the evidence, B'Elanna's sitting in a Mari jail cell waiting for some sort of lobotomy. We can't let that happen.
CHAKOTAY: What did you have in mind?
PARIS: Break her out.
CHAKOTAY: And risk an all-out confrontation with the Mari?
PARIS: They're a bunch of pacifists. They're no match for us.
CHAKOTAY: You're probably right. But before we start resorting to extreme measures, don't you think we should give the captain a chance to find a legal solution?
PARIS: By the time that happens, it may be too late.
CHAKOTAY: I'll tell you what. Why don't you come up with a rescue plan, one that minimises the possibility of violence, and I'll review it.
PARIS: You're just trying to keep me busy, aren't you?
CHAKOTAY: Can you blame me?
PARIS: I'm serious about this, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: So am I. If your plan is sound and the captain doesn't have any luck on her end, I'll recommend we attempt the rescue.
PARIS: Thanks. I'll get right on it.
CHAKOTAY: Tom. I may have let you sit in the captain's chair, but remember, she's still the boss.

[Ready room]

TUVOK: Then you don't accept the Chief Examiner's conclusion?
JANEWAY: I'm not dismissing it. But I'm not going to accept it blindly either.
TUVOK: I have spent a great deal of time with Nimira over the last few days. She clearly is a very skilled investigator.
JANEWAY: I'm sure she is.
TUVOK: And this isn't the first time Lieutenant Torres' violent proclivities have created problems.
JANEWAY: No argument there. But I have a hard time buying that one fleeting thought makes her responsible for a vicious attack.
TUVOK: From what I've learned, crime here is a result of exposure to violent thought, much as it was on Vulcan before my people learned to control their emotions. In my opinion, the Mari should be applauded for their efforts.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm sure their intentions are admirable, but I'm not about to let them scramble B'Elanna's brain without a fight.
TUVOK: But we must prepare ourselves for the probability that she will turn out to be culpable for the crime.
JANEWAY: Maybe so. And then again, maybe not. Take a look at this. I don't mean to accuse your friend Nimira of being less than thorough, Tuvok, but don't you find that just the least bit curious?

[Briefing room]

NIMIRA: New evidence.
TUVOK: It concerns the attacker, Mister Frane. According to your own security records, he was arrested on four previous occasions for harbouring violent thoughts. You classified him as an habitual perpetrator of hostile images.
NIMIRA: True. But those thoughts were purged each time. He spent years in neurogenic restructuring. The records also say he was cured.
TUVOK: Still, it is possible that Frane had a relapse. That he alone is responsible for his actions in the marketplace.
NIMIRA: Possible, but unlikely. Our engrammatic scans of Frane show that Lieutenant Torres' thought was prevalent in his mind during the attack.
TUVOK: And you are certain no other violent thoughts were present?
NIMIRA: I'm beginning to feel like I'm the one being investigated.
TUVOK: I am simply exploring all logical options. As a fellow law enforcement officer, you should understand that.
NIMIRA: I do. And I'm willing to share my findings with you. But if you're trying to prove your crewmate's innocence, you're too late. The case is closed. Do you think that this is easy for me? I don't want to harm B'Elanna, but I don't have a choice. That thought has to be contained, otherwise we risk further violence, maybe even a city wide panic. You told me your people spent centuries learning how to control their violent impulses. I know we haven't achieved your level of discipline, but we're trying. I thought you'd understand.
TUVOK: I am not judging your culture. In fact, I admire it. I have enjoyed your company in particular. But I cannot abandon my responsibility to B'Elanna. I must continue my own investigation.
NIMIRA: Go right ahead. But I intend to proceed with the engrammatic purge.

[Market place]

(Neelix and Seven are packing objects.)
NEELIX: Telepathy. I don't like it, never have. It's bad for negotiations, it's bad for relationships, and it's certainly been bad for B'Elanna.
SEVEN: The fault was her own.
NEELIX: What are you talking about?
SEVEN: She was careless with her thoughts. The result was violence.
NEELIX: B'Elanna's not used to being around telepaths. That doesn't make her guilty.
SEVEN: Then her crime was ignorance. A common affliction among your crew.
NEELIX: What's that supposed to mean?
SEVEN: You make contact with alien species without sufficient understanding of their nature. As a result, Voyager's directive to seek out new civilisations often ends in conflict.
NEELIX: What you call ignorance, we call exploration. And sometimes it means taking a few risks. But it's certainly better than assimilating everything in your path.
SEVEN: Your goal is to share knowledge. Assimilation is the perfect means of attaining that goal.
NEELIX: Perfect.
(An older woman goes to the fruit stall.)
TALLI: Good morning, Miss Tembit. Your usual selection?
TEMBIT: Yes, please.
TALLI: Okay. (Talli drops a fruit.)
TALLI: Oh, I'm so sorry.
(There is a flash of Frane and Torres.)
TEMBIT: Idiot! Watch what you're doing!
(Tembit picks up a knife.There is a scream. Seven and Neelix rush over to see Tembit standing over Talli, bloodied knife in hand.)
NEELIX: She's dead.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: I can't believe she'd dead.
TUVOK: I know this is difficult for you, Mister Neelix, but try to recount for me everything that happened.
NEELIX: Seven and I were packing to return to the ship. We heard a scream. I went running. The old lady was just standing over Talli's body holding the bloody knife in her hand. I didn't even get a chance to say goodbye.
TUVOK: Did the old woman say anything?
NEELIX: Not that I remember. She was as shocked and confused as anyone else. Do you think this is somehow connected with the other attack?
TUVOK: I am not certain. But it strikes me as more than coincidence that two violent altercations have occurred within two days in a city which purports to have eliminated virtually all crime.
CREWMAN: [OC]: Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Tuvok here.
CREWMAN [OC]: Chief Examiner Nimira wants to see you. She's requesting permission to transport aboard.
TUVOK: Permission granted. Have her escorted to the briefing room. Tuvok out. We will continue later.
NEELIX: Commander. She was a wonderful young woman. Whoever's responsible for her death, find them and see that they're brought to justice.
TUVOK: I will do my best, Mister Neelix.

[Briefing room]

(Tuvok is already there when Nimira is escorted in.)
NIMIRA: Thanks for seeing me.
TUVOK: I heard what happened. Do you have any idea what caused this latest attack?
NIMIRA: I just finished interviewing the old woman.
TUVOK: And?
NIMIRA: She attacked the victim in response to the same violent thought that motivated the previous beating.
TUVOK: B'Elanna's thought? But both she and Frane are in custody. How could the thought have been passed to anyone else?
NIMIRA: I don't know. That's why I'm here. I need your help.
TUVOK: Then you shall have it.
NIMIRA: Thank you. I don't know why that thought is still contaminating people, but I have got to put a stop to it. I've never dealt with a murder before, but you've had experience with homicide investigations.
TUVOK: I have.
NIMIRA: I thought I would start by tracing the old woman's whereabouts for the past few days to see where she might have encountered the thought.
TUVOK: A wise choice. In the meantime, I would like to interview B'Elanna more extensively. Perhaps a fresh perspective might uncover facts you hadn't considered.
NIMIRA: I'll arrange it immediately.

[Chief Examiner's office]

TORRES: I'm not sure I like the idea of a mind meld any better than an engrammatic purge.
TUVOK: It will be a limited meld. I will focus exclusively on your memories of the events surrounding the crime. It poses no danger. Are you ready? Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. Recall your encounter with Mister Frane. He bumped into you. What happened next?
TORRES: I guess that's when I had the thought about hitting him.
TUVOK: And after that?
TORRES: Guill came over and asked if I was hurt.
TUVOK: And what were you thinking at that moment?
TORRES: Why?
TUVOK: I'm sensing something more to the encounter than what you've told me. Try to recall. It may be important.
TORRES: Well, he was just holding me by the shoulders.
TUVOK: You said he'd been reading your mind during the negotiation. Was he still doing it?
TORRES: I don't know.
TUVOK: You experienced negative feelings about him.
TORRES: He gave me the creeps.
TUVOK: In what sense?
TORRES: He wanted something. Something terrible.
(Torres breaks the meld.)
TORRES: What the hell? Why didn't I remember that before?
TUVOK: You may be recalling an unconscious thought you had at the time, or an intuition. Perhaps I should ask Mister Guill.

[Covered walkway]

TUVOK: Mister Guill. I'm Commander Tuvok, Voyager's Chief of Security.
GUILL: My children get upset when I'm late for supper. If you're here to do business we can make an appointment for tomorrow.
TUVOK: I'm here to talk to you about the attack.
GUILL: Why me?
TUVOK: My crewmate, Lieutenant Torres, has been charged with the crime. I believe you're acquainted with her.
GUILL: Lieutenant Torres, yes. She was arrested?
TUVOK: The Chief Examiner believes it was her violent thought which prompted the beating.
GUILL: Ah. She seemed like such a pleasant young woman.
TUVOK: Apparently she was almost knocked over while doing business with you. Do you recall that?
GUILL: Yes. A man accidentally ran into her. You're not like the others from your ship, are you? You're a telepath.
TUVOK: That is correct.
GUILL: Why are you so curious about what happened?
TUVOK: I am conducting my own investigation of the crime.
GUILL: I see. For a moment I thought you had another reason for asking. You struggle with violent thoughts as well. Terrible images, but they're hidden deep within your mind.
TUVOK: I am in control of those images. All members of the Vulcan race learn to inhibit emotions. If my unconscious thoughts are disturbing you, I will attempt to suppress them further.
GUILL: No, please, don't trouble yourself. I can't see them clearly enough to be affected.
TUVOK: I sense that you are fascinated with my unconscious thoughts. That you would like to see more of them if you could.
GUILL: No. I was just thinking, maybe I could help you.
TUVOK: Help me?
GUILL: In learning how to deal with these dark impulses.
TUVOK: No, thank you. I have sufficient means of controlling them.
GUILL: I'm sure you do. Any other questions?
TUVOK: No.
GUILL: Then if you'll excuse me, I really can't be late for the table. (Guill heads down some steps, and Tuvok follows at a discreet distance. Guill meets another man in a shadowy place.) 
GUILL: Do you have the money?
MALIN: Three thousand renns.
GUILL: I have something exciting for you tonight.
(Guill and Malin walk on, then step out of a shadow in front of Tuvok.)
GUILL: Why are you following us?
TUVOK: I was thinking abut what you said. Your interest in my unconscious thoughts. Perhaps we could help each other.
GUILL: How would we do that?
TUVOK: By telepathically exchanging violent images. That is what you want, isn't it? To see what's buried in my unconscious.
MALIN: Who is he?
GUILL: Quiet. Why should I trust you?
TUVOK: Because you know we are very much alike. Perhaps I was mistaken.
GUILL: Wait. Maybe we can be of use to each other, but you'll have to get rid of this.
(Tuvok throws his comm. badge onto the ground.)
GUILL: Come back later, Malin. If I'm right, I'll have thoughts to share that are darker than anything you could imagine.
(Images of a dagger striking flesh, an alien sinking its teeth into an arm, someone being engulfed in a plasma fire, a Dobermann barking, security men shooting, something Cube-like  exploding. Guill has his fingers on Tuvok's forehead.)
GUILL: Well?
TUVOK: Fascinating.
GUILL: Now. Show me.
TUVOK: I'll need a few moments to recover.
GUILL: I'm surprised you're so easily tired. Your telepathic abilities are strong.
TUVOK: It is not often that I exercise those skills.
GUILL: There must be violent thoughts to be had from your shipmates, whether they want to share them or not. After all, they couldn't stop a telepath from probing their minds, could they?
TUVOK: Is that how you acquire your merchandise?
GUILL: Sometimes I buy, sometimes I find a person like you who's willing to share, and yes, when the opportunity presents itself, I take what I need.
TUVOK: Which is what you did to Lieutenant Torres.
GUILL: Frane took her thought, not me.
TUVOK: So you know Mister Frane?
GUILL: Only casually.
TUVOK: Well enough to be in business with him?
GUILL: Why do you ask?
TUVOK: I am interested in the thought he acquired from B'Elanna. Her violent tendencies have always fascinated me, yet I've never succeeded in probing her mind. If you could help me purchase that thought
GUILL: It's impossible. Frane's already had it purged.
TUVOK: Odd. I was certain you possessed it.
GUILL: Me?
TUVOK: Didn't you extract the thought from B'Elanna as well just after she collided with Frane?
GUILL: What?
TUVOK: I re-evaluated B'Elanna's memories of the incident. She remembers that you probed her mind.
GUILL: She remembers incorrectly.
TUVOK: Perhaps. Or perhaps you did extract that image, which would explain why that same thought is still in circulation. Why it prompted a murder this morning.
GUILL: Enough! It's time you gave me what you promised.
TUVOK: The only person you'll be sharing thoughts with tonight is the Chief Examiner.
MALIN: Where are you going?
TUVOK: Stand aside.
GUILL: Tuvok's taking me into custody.
MALIN: No!
(Malin attacks Tuvok. Guill joins in and they overpower him.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Still no sign of him.
JANEWAY: Try a multiphasic bioscan.
KIM: We're being hailed, Captain. It's Nimira.
JANEWAY: On screen. Chief Examiner, have you had any luck locating Tuvok?
NIMIRA [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: I'd like to send a search party.
NIMIRA [on viewscreen]: I can't allow that.
JANEWAY: Why not?
NIMIRA [on viewscreen]: We can't risk further violations of our laws.
PARIS: That's ridiculous.
JANEWAY: Tom. I really don't think we pose a serious threat.
NIMIRA [on viewscreen]: There's nothing more to discuss. Lieutenant Torres will be purged, then returned to you.
PARIS: Captain, you can't let them do that.
NIMIRA [on viewscreen]: The decision's been made. I'm sorry.

[Chief Examiner's office]

(Torres is dragged in, in handcuffs.)
TORRES: Let go of me.
NIMIRA: B'Elanna, please. Try to relax.
TORRES: Oh, you have got to be kidding.
NIMIRA: Sedate her.
TORRES: No. Wait.
(She is injected and strapped into the chair.)
NIMIRA: Proceed.
(The engrammatic purge begins.)

[Covered walkway]

(Guill and Malin are half-carrying the battered Vulcan.)
TUVOK: You won't escape punishment for your crimes.
GUILL: Quiet.
TUVOK: You are responsible for a death.
GUILL: I never meant that to happen. The old woman begged me for that thought. I had to help her. Here.
(They sit him down.)
TUVOK: You're justifying murder.
GUILL: Enough. Malin, hold him still. Now, show me.
(Screaming people, a man burning alive, a Kradin.)
GUILL: You're holding back. I haven't seen the best of it yet, have I?
TUVOK: No.
GUILL: Then show me.
TUVOK: If I show you, will you let me go?
GUILL: Yes.
TUVOK: Come in closer.
(Tuvok grabs Guill's head.)
TUVOK: Don't be alarmed. This will allow you to see the deepest recesses of my mind. My mind to your mind. My thoughts to your thoughts.
GUILL: Yes. Good. This is the side of you I wanted to know.
(Guill sees himself retreating from an oncoming Tuvok, who then grabs his throat and squeezes.)
GUILL: What's happening?
TUVOK: We are locked in a Vulcan mind meld. You don't understand the truth of violence. Its darkness, its power.
GUILL: Please, stop.
(Guill passes out.)

[Chief Examiner's office]

NIMIRA: Increase the electrochemical displacement, but be very careful with the synaptic potentials. One miscalculation and we could permanently damage her cerebral cortex.
MARI OFFICIAL [OC]: Communications Centre to Chief Examiner Nimira.
NIMIRA: Nimira.
MARI OFFICIAL [OC]: Captain Janeway insists on speaking with you. She says it's extremely urgent.
NIMIRA: Relay her signal. What is it, Captain?
JANEWAY [OC]: It's imperative that you discontinue Lieutenant Torres' engrammatic extraction immediately.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok has found new evidence which proves her innocence.
(Tuvok is beamed aboard without his comm. badge..)

[Briefing room]

(Nimira is shown in.)
NIMIRA: I hope this interruption is justified. Suspending an engrammatic purge once it's begun is highly irregular.
JANEWAY: Then let's not waste any more time. Commander.
TUVOK: I have discovered that Guill and Frane are responsible for the beating in the marketplace, and consequently for Talli's murder.
NIMIRA: Guill, the merchant?
TUVOK: That is correct.
NIMIRA: What possible involvement could he have? It was Frane who acted on the violent thought.
TUVOK: That is not in dispute. However, Lieutenant Torres' thought was not transferred accidentally.
NIMIRA: I don't understand.
TUVOK: When Guill first met Lieutenant Torres, he sensed strong, violent tendencies within her. A potential for mental imagery which interested him. In order to exploit that potential, he conspired with Frane to provoke B'Elanna. They wanted to trigger a violent thought so they could telepathically draw it from her mind.
NIMIRA: I can't believe that.
TUVOK: It is precisely what happened. Unfortunately, they underestimated the intensity of the thought. It was more powerful than anything either of them had ever experienced. As a result, Frane lost control and attacked the victim.
NIMIRA: Why would peaceful men like Guill and Frane want to subject themselves to such hostile images?
TUVOK: My investigation has uncovered a rather disturbing side of Mari society. A black market if you will, in which many of your citizens trade in illicit mental imagery. Guill is a very prominent figure in this underground. Or was, until I brought him into custody.
NIMIRA: Why would any of my people want to indulge in that kind of behaviour?
JANEWAY: Apparently, outlawing violent thought hasn't made it go away. All you've done is force people to share it in back alleys.
TUVOK: It seems you have a somewhat more serious problem than the random thoughts of a single alien.
NIMIRA: Even if I believed you, I'm not sure anyone else would.
TUVOK: Then I suggest you interrogate Guill yourselves. His engrammatic record will undoubtedly confirm what I've told you.
NIMIRA: Where is he now?
TUVOK: We have him confined, in our brig.

Captain's log, supplemental. Chief Examiner Nimira has taken custody of Mister Guill. Whether his arrest will lead to reforms in the Mari justice system is anyone's guess. In the meantime, the Doctor is treating Lieutenant Torres and Commander Tuvok.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Fortunately the Mari didn't get very far with the procedure. You can return to duty, Lieutenant, though perhaps with one or two fewer violent engrams in that fiery head of yours.
TORRES: It's all right, Doc. There are plenty more where those came from.
EMH: Duly warned.
TORRES: Thanks for getting me out of there.
TUVOK: I was merely pursuing the truth.
TORRES: So, if I was responsible for passing that thought you would have let them lobotomise me?

[Corridor]

TUVOK: It is incumbent upon us to respect the laws of the societies we visit.
TORRES: So, you still a fan of the Mari legal system?
TUVOK: My views have been somewhat modified.
TORRES: Then you're not going to lecture me about losing my temper?
TUVOK: If you must know, investigating this case has given me a new respect for your inner struggle.
TORRES: Really?
TUVOK: Burdened as you are by your primitive Klingon psyche, it is a wonder you are able to keep your violent thoughts under control as much as you do.
TORRES: Thanks. I think.
TUVOK: You're welcome. Of course, there are various Vulcan techniques which could help you increase your self-control.
TORRES: You don't say.

[Ready room]

(Seven walks in while Janeway is sitting by the window, reading a PADD and sipping a cup of coffee.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: I must speak with you.
JANEWAY: Of course. Have a seat.
SEVEN: I prefer to stand.
JANEWAY: I keep forgetting.
SEVEN: You once encouraged me to express my opinions if I had something relevant to say.
JANEWAY: Go right ahead.
SEVEN: You wish to return this vessel to the Alpha Quadrant, and yet you are following Starfleet protocol regarding first contact. The two objectives are incompatible.
JANEWAY: How so?
SEVEN: Your philosophy of exploration exposes Voyager to constant risk. If you maintain a direct course to Earth and avoid all extraneous contact with alien species, it will increase your chances of survival.
JANEWAY: Well, that would make a dull ride home.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: We seek out new races because we want to, not because we're following protocols. We have an insatiable curiosity about the universe.
SEVEN: Your Chief Engineer and Security Officer were nearly lost today. That is unacceptable.
JANEWAY: To you, maybe, but not to me or my crew. Our experience with the Mari gave us an insight into a culture we've never encountered.
SEVEN: But that is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: No. It's how we gain knowledge.
SEVEN: Then we are in disagreement.
JANEWAY: Good. I dread the day when everyone on this ship agrees with me. I thank you for your opinion but our mission is not going to change.
(Seven walks out.)
JANEWAY: Dismissed.


S4 E11
Concerning Flight
Stardate: 51386.4
Original Airdate: November 26, 1997

[Holodeck - Da Vinci's Workshop]
(Leonardo da Vinci storms in, drenched, and throws down a piece of his flying machine. A crowd is jeering outside. A dripping Janeway follows him.)
DA VINCI: Animali! Brutti animali. Animali!
WOMAN [OC]: No, Leonardo, you are the animali.
MAN [OC]: A bird who cannot fly.
DA VINCI: Better than a man who cannot think!
CHILDREN [OC]: The pidgeon speaks. Cuckoo, cuckooo!
(da Vinci picks up a large vase to throw at the crowd. Janeway stops him.)
JANEWAY: Maestro!
DA VINCI: Stupido! Foolish Florentines! A bird is a mechanical instrument that works according to mathematical laws. An instrument that surely I can recreate. How did it fail?
JANEWAY: Maybe you underestimated the wingspan?
DA VINCI: Had not the river Arno taken us to its arms we would both have died.
JANEWAY: Jumping off the bridge was a wise precaution.
DA VINCI: Against death, yes. Against humiliation, no. The great bird will take flight and bring glory to its nest. So I have bragged for months. Instead, we almost drown with half of Florence watching. Bah! Finito! No more. Catarina, have you been to France?
JANEWAY: Not recently.
DA VINCI: The King of France is a great admirer of mine. The Divine Leonardo is all I hear when I walk through his streets. And what music do I find in the streets of Florence, eh? The cooing of pigeons and the babbling of fools. Catarina, we are leaving!
JANEWAY: You're giving up. Again. Your beautiful painting of the Adoration, the great bronze horse in Milan, the Battle of Anghiari. Unfinished, all of them. You were going to publish your notebooks. You never did. You have given up, abandoned your most important works. Why?
DA VINCI: There is a tavern just outside Paris, Catarina. A charming bistro where the wine is
(Rumble!)
DA VINCI: Terremoto!
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're under attack, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way.
DA VINCI: Earthquakes and idiots. Florence be damned.

[Bridge]

(Small ships are bombarding Voyager.)
JANEWAY: Who are they and why are they shooting at us?
CHAKOTAY: Unknown, Captain. They're not responding to hails.
JANEWAY: Damage?
TUVOK: None.
KIM: I'm reading a slight destabilisation along the shield perimeter.
TUVOK: Attempting to compensate.

[Engineering]

(A small ship runs a beam along Voyager's length. Torres sees a piece of equipment vanish.)
TORRES: Er, Torres to the bridge.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TORRES: We just lost the warp diagnostic assembly.
JANEWAY [OC]: What do you mean, lost?
TORRES: It disappeared.
(So do containers and the EMH's mobile emitter.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm picking up demterialisations on decks four through twelve.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
PARIS: They're matching our course changes.
(A biobed dematerialises..)
CHAKOTAY: It's definitely some kind of transporter beam.
JANEWAY: Fire at will.
TUVOK: I have the will, but not the means, Captain. Targeting control is down.
JANEWAY: Why?
KIM: Captain, the main computer processor is gone. We've lost weapons, navigation and propulsion.
CHAKOTAY: Backup systems are coming online.
JANEWAY: Full phasers, manual targeting. Keep firing until you hit something.
(They hit one ship - KaBOOM.)
KIM: The other ships are retreating.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to all decks. Full damage reports.
PARIS: I feel like we've just been mugged.

[Briefing room]

TUVOK: They were employing a high-energy transporter beam designed to locate objects of technological value, and remove them.
(Tuvok hands Chakotay a PADD.)
CHAKOTAY: They removed a lot. Five tricorders, three phaser rifles, a couple of photon torpedo casings, two antimatter injectors, a month's supply of emergency rations.
PARIS: No great loss there.
EMH [on monitor]: Excuse me. You're forgetting the most important thing of all. My mobile emitter. Without it I'm stuck in Sickbay. I can't go anywhere.
JANEWAY: We'll do the best we can, Doctor but our top priority is the main computer processor. B'Elanna, I want a defence against another transporter attack. Harry, do everything you can to track those ships.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM: Seven. Hey.
SEVEN: If you're here to fraternise I do not have the time.
KIM: Actually, the captain wanted me to locate the ships that attacked us. I've pushed the long range sensors about as far as they'll go.
SEVEN: And now you believe the sensors can be extended by using the deep space imaging system.
KIM: Well, yes.
SEVEN: I've been working on that exact procedure for the past two hours.
KIM: Really? Let's have a look.
SEVEN: Do you doubt my ability to finish the task?
KIM: Look, I came here to work. I realised you'd already started the job so I offered to help, that's all. I offered to help.
SEVEN: An algorithmic feedback is interfering with the resolution. Decompile data banks fifty nine through seventeen and attempt to isolate it. Now. Or you should leave.
KIM: Okay. I'm a pretty easy-going person. I mean, it takes a lot to ruffle my feathers. But that's not true of everybody. You've got to learn how to phrase things a little more diplomatically.
(Seven takes no notice.)
KIM: Or not.

Captain's log, stardate 51386.4. With ship's systems at nearly half capacity, it's taken us ten days to track our stolen technology.

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm picking up Starfleet signatures from two of the continents.
CHAKOTAY: Can you find the main computer processor?
KIM: It's on the northern continent, in what looks like a city, but there's a lot of signal interference. I'll never be able to localise it from here.
TUVOK: Captain, I have identified nearly twenty seven kinds of alien ships in orbit of this planet. It appears to be an active centre of commerce. We should be able to place an undercover away team on either continent without attracting attention.
JANEWAY: That's good enough for now. Tuvok, you and I are going after the processor. Tom, Neelix, I want you on the other continent. Find out what you can. At the very least, try to get our emergency rations back. Chakotay, you have the bridge.

[Market place]

(Janeway and Tuvok are in casual clothes.)
JANEWAY: It never fails to impress me. No matter how vast the differences may be between cultures, people always have something that somebody else wants, and trade is born.
TUVOK: Or more to the point, theft.
JANEWAY: What have you got?
TUVOK: The materials in the construction of this city, and the technology in use appear to have originated from numerous sources.
JANEWAY: No doubt stolen.
TUVOK: The myriad signatures have resulted in high interference levels. I am unable to. A moment. I am picking up a Starfleet signature.
JANEWAY: The computer processor?
TUVOK: I don't believe so. The signal magnitude is too low. The signature is approaching.
DA VINCI: Catarina! Che meraviglia! Out of my way, out of my way! Scusi, scusi. Catarina. Catarina. Welcome. Welcome to America.
(da Vinci is wearing the mobile emitter.)
DA VINCI: Tell me, Catarina, what do you think of the New World?
JANEWAY: How did you get here?
DA VINCI: A question I have asked myself many times. One moment I was packing for my journey to France, the next I was in this land of marvels. Possibly, upon leaving my workshop I was accosted by Spanish sailors, rendered unconscious, delivered to a galleon in the port of Genoa, and carried like a sack of grain across the vast Atlantic. Curious ears.
JANEWAY: My travelling companion, Tuvok.
DA VINCI: Ah, what the old philosophers say is true. Monstrous and wonderful are the peoples of undiscovered lands. But tell me, Catarina, how did you come to the Americas?
JANEWAY: Oh, it's a long story. A Portuguese ship, some Turkish pirates, a couple of hurricanes. I'll tell you about it some other time.
DA VINCI: Excuse me. There is the man I have been looking for. He has an apparatus that I need for my next invention. My patron is a demanding taskmaster.
JANEWAY: Your patron?
DA VINCI: The prince of this city. Buon giorno, signore.
TUVOK: The Da Vinci character is interpreting this world through the limited capacity of his holodeck programme.
JANEWAY: He sees everything in sixteenth century terms.
TUVOK: But what is he doing here?
JANEWAY: I was running the Da Vinci simulation when we were attacked. His programme must have been active in the computer's memory when the processor was beamed off the ship.
TUVOK: And then downloaded into the Doctor's mobile emitter. But by whom?
JANEWAY: His patron, the Prince?
(da Vinci returns with the item.)
DA VINCI: Marvellous, no?
TUVOK: A plasma injector conduit, Starfleet issue.
DA VINCI: Call it what you will. With this machine I can make mercury flow in three directions at once. You must see my new workshop. The Prince has been very supportive. Andiamo!
JANEWAY: Let's go.

[Da Vinci's Workshop]

DA VINCI: So, Catarina, what do you think of this place? My workshop in Florence was but a cave of ignorance in comparison.
JANEWAY: Your new patron gave you all this?
DA VINCI: He is the perfect prince. Intelligent, but not overly so. In awe of my talent, but not threatened by it. And above all, and most importantly, his purse is inexhaustible.
JANEWAY: And in return for all this support?
DA VINCI: I give him my ideas. I have even resurrected my Great Bird, like the Phoenix of legend. They have materials here, Catarina, that are so strong and so light that surely my prototype will ascend to the heavens.
(Janeway spots a phaser and picks it up. da Vinci snatches it from her.)
DA VINCI: Be careful! They have found a way to harness the energy of a thunderstorm and to expel it with great force. A pistole that shoots not a lead ball but a bolt of lightning.
(da Vinci demonstrates by atomising an ornament in an alcove.)
JANEWAY: I'd like to meet this patron you yours.
DA VINCI: And so you shall, this very evening, but I caution you. He is as ruthless as a Borgia.

First Officer's log, stardate 51392.7. Though we've yet to hear from the Captain and Tuvok, Paris and Neelix have returned from their mission to the southern continent with some disturbing evidence.

[Briefing room]

(An alien is wearing a Starfleet uniform. On the table is a phaser rifle and what looks like an original series communicator.)
CHAKOTAY: Who sold you these things?
ALIEN VISITOR: I didn't come here to be interrogated. You told me you have a warp coil to trade.
PARIS: I said you could talk with Commander Chakotay. I didn't say he'd necessarily do business with you.
ALIEN VISITOR: Well, this is a waste of my time.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. There's the door.
ALIEN VISITOR: What?
CHAKOTAY: Goodbye. Make sure he doesn't get lost on the way out.
ALIEN VISITOR: No, no, no. Wait, wait. His name is Tau. He controls the seventh province in the north.
CHAKOTAY: He sells weapons and technology.
ALIEN VISITOR: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: Which he confiscates from passing ships.
ALIEN VISITOR: Yes, using his translocator device. Which he also stole. It's made him a rich man.
CHAKOTAY: There are a few items I'd like to get back. Where can I find him?
ALIEN VISITOR: I deal with a go-between. I've answered enough of your questions. Let's talk about that warp coil. I'm looking for something that
CHAKOTAY: You can keep what you've got. We'll call it even.
ALIEN VISITOR: This was a waste of my time.
CHAKOTAY: Not really. These colours look good on you.

[Market place]

TAU: Torpedoes, plasma grenades, particle beam rifles. I can even get a ceremonial spear if you're interested.
ALIEN BUYER: I am not interested.
TAU: My point is, no matter what the weaponry, if you desire it, chances are I have it or I can get it.
ALIEN BUYER: Your prices are said to be unreasonable.
TAU: Unreasonable is such a strong term. But if I can't sell to you, I'll sell to one of the other colonies in your system. A violent sort, your neighbours, aren't they? I'd hate to make your life difficult by offering my weapons to them. But if you don't give me a choice
TUVOK: There can be no doubt our computer processor is not in the city.
JANEWAY: Well, that certainly makes things a little more difficult. Leonardo's new patron is quite the business man.
TUVOK: We may have no choice but to do business with him.
DA VINCI: Catarina! Here are some friends I want you to meet.
JANEWAY: Try to keep our hologram occupied.
TUVOK: But Captain
JANEWAY: Make small talk.
TUVOK: Vulcans do not make small talk.
JANEWAY: Improvise.
(Tuvok takes the drink da Vinci is holding out.)
TUVOK: Thank you. That is very considerate.
DA VINCI: Catarina, wait a minute.
TUVOK: Mister da Vinci, how have you been?
DA VINCI: Benissimo. Now if you'll pardon me.
TUVOK: I wish to speak with you.
DA VINCI: What about?
TUVOK: About you. You are most intriguing.
DA VINCI: Ah, grazie. And you, signore Tuvok, are equally provocative. Where exactly are you from?
TUVOK: Scandinavia.
DA VINCI: So, what do the Scandinavians think of this New World?
TUVOK: It is fascinating, and you are obviously enjoying it.
DA VINCI: Beyond words. Yes. Italy is already a fading memory. The city is full of mechanical marvels, the countryside alive with creatures strange and wonderful.
TUVOK: I'm curious. How have you spent your time here?
DA VINCI: I work on my inventions and my art, and I accompany the Prince when he goes to visit his great fortresses. Well, this er, fascinating conversation has left me as dry as Vulcan.
TUVOK: Vulcan?
DA VINCI: An island off Sicily. Have you been there?
TUVOK: No.
DA VINCI: Pity.
(da Vinci leaves. Elsewhere in the market -)
TAU: We'll talk later.
(Another man leaves.)
JANEWAY: Good evening.
TAU: And to you. Enjoying yourself?
JANEWAY: Not yet.
TAU: No? How can I change that?
JANEWAY: By having exactly what I want and selling it to me at a low price.
TAU: The former's quite likely, but as for the latter, I don't sell inexpensive merchandise.
JANEWAY: I have a client who runs a colony about twenty parsecs from here. His computer is outmoded so I'm looking for a replacement.
TAU: A computer that could coordinate the systems of an entire colony. That's no small order, but I think I might have something that will interest you.
(He leads Janeway to a section of wall.)
TAU: Hello, computer, and how are you today?
COMPUTER: All systems are functioning within normal parameters.
JANEWAY: Verbal interface. Impressive.
TAU: Computer, tell us your technical specifications.
COMPUTER: Simultaneous access to forty seven million data channels. Transluminal processing at five hundred seventy five trillion calculations per nanosecond.
TAU: Interested?
COMPUTER: Operational temperature margins from ten degrees Kelvin to one thousand seven hundred ninety degrees Kelvin.
TAU: I could sell it to you, but I could hardly let it go for anything less than a warship. Or we could find something else in your price range.

[Da Vinci's Workshop]

JANEWAY: We should be looking for a stronghold or storage facility. Any place Tau might keep the stolen technology.
TUVOK: There are several possibilities all within a ten kilometre radius of the city. I must admit, your Mister da Vinci is an astute observer of nature. These maps couldn't be improved upon by Voyager's topographical computer.
JANEWAY: He was a Renaissance man, Tuvok. Interpreted, reinterpreted, deconstructed, fantasised about all through history. Vasari thought he was an angel. Freud thought he had a problem with his mother. James T. Kirk claimed he met him, although the evidence is less than conclusive.
DA VINCI: Buongiorno, amici.
JANEWAY: Good morning, maestro. Did you sleep well?
DA VINCI: Too well, I'm afraid. My apologies, Catarina. The morning is half gone. Nevertheless, the images that come before the eyes upon awakening can be inspiring.
(da Vinci has drawn a curious dragon with a Vulcan ear on its rump.)
TUVOK: Indeed.
DA VINCI: Catarina, where did I leave my silver tipped pen? I could swear it was here on the
(Tuvok taps the mobile emitter to pause da Vinci.)
TUVOK: Captain, we should return to Voyager. With my tricorder readings and Leonardo's maps we can use the ship's sensors to triangulate the exact location of our processor.
JANEWAY: We'll work on two fronts. You go back to the ship. I'll stay on the surface and keep working with Leonardo. He has access to Tau and he knows the territory.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. Charming as your childhood hero may be, the programme was not designed for use outside the holodeck.
JANEWAY: This is Leonardo da Vinci we're talking about. Simulation or not, he's one of the greatest creative minds in Earth's history.
TUVOK: The programme reproduces the entire range of Da Vinci's behaviour. His genius and his notorious unreliability.
JANEWAY: We have an opportunity here, and I want to take advantage of it.
(Tuvok takes his comm. badge from his pocket.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. One to beam up.
(Janeway restarts da Vinci.)
DA VINCI: Table. Where did he go?
JANEWAY: Back to the ship.
DA VINCI: The ship? You mean the Portuguese are still in the harbour?
JANEWAY: No, not exactly. But they're nearby.
DA VINCI: Ah. Mad sea dogs, the Portuguese.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is giving Seven a quick check-up.)
EMH: So, what's new?
SEVEN: New?
EMH: What's been happening on the ship?
SEVEN: Nothing of consequence. The Captain and Tuvok are still searching for the processor.
EMH: What's the mood?
SEVEN: If you're referring to the crew morale, they seemed focused on their mission.
EMH: Hmm. I heard there was something of a fuss in the mess hall last night.
SEVEN: A trivial misunderstanding.
EMH: Oh? You seen in excellent health. Most of your implants are stable, but your optical interface is misaligned again. I told you to come in for maintenance once a week. Now, what happened in the mess hall?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres and I were working on some Astrometric data. There was a disagreement.
EMH: I understand things got a little heated.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres became emotional. She chose to display hostility rather than to counter my argument.
EMH: What did she say exactly?
SEVEN: It is irrelevant. Suffice it to say I was correct, she was not.
EMH: Details, Seven. I want specifics.
SEVEN: I see no reason to discuss these trivialities.
EMH: Without my mobile emitter I am a prisoner in here. I need to know what is going on beyond these walls, trivial or not.
SEVEN: Torres referred to me as an automaton. She also employed a series of profane Klingon insults. Shall I translate them for you?
EMH: By all means. I'd very much.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Seven of Nine. Report to the Astrometrics lab.
EMH: You may go.
SEVEN: I'll be right there, Commander.
EMH: Come back whenever you feel like talking. I'll be right here. All by myself.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: I am entering Leonardo's maps and my tricorder data into the imaging system.
SEVEN: I will create a search pattern for our missing processor.
TUVOK: Da Vinci has accurately rendered the topographical detail. However, his coordinate axes are pre-Cartesian. You will have to convert them.
SEVEN: Understood. It is puzzling that even a Vulcan would refer to a holographic character by name, as if it were alive. It seems somehow illogical. Localising grid. Altitude twenty kilometres.
TUVOK: One of these storage facilities undoubtedly contains the processor. Increase sensor resolution to maximum and scan the area.
SEVEN: There. Our computer processor is inside this structure.
TUVOK: Unfortunately, the building is surrounded by a dispersion field. Transport will be impossible.
SEVEN: If the captain can get inside the facility and reach the processor itself, she may be able to assist us.
TUVOK: If she were to initiate a power surge in the processor, it might produce a signal strong enough for us to lock onto.
SEVEN: That is what I was referring to.
TUVOK: I will inform the captain.

[Da Vinci's Workshop]

JANEWAY: It's not too far across open country. Leonardo says he's been there and he can help me get inside.
TUVOK [OC]: Understood.
JANEWAY: Stand by for my signal. If I can find the processor, be prepared to beam it back to Voyager.
TUVOK [OC]: Aye, Captain. Tuvok out.
TAU: So it's captain. I see you and my hologram are old friends.
(Tau points a weapon at Janeway, snaps his fingers and holds out his hand. She surrenders her comm. badge.)
JANEWAY: My engineers have developed a defence against your transporter, so I suggest that you return what you took from us and let me go.
TAU: Or what? You're in no position to bargain. The only ones who will bargain will be your crew and it will cost them a great deal to get their captain back. I wonder what you're worth to them.
(da Vinci hits Tau with a brass cylinder.)
JANEWAY: He'll be fine. Let's move. (Janeway takes back her comm. badge and Tau's weapon.)
DA VINCI: I'm not going.
JANEWAY: You said you'd help me.
DA VINCI: I have already gone too far. He was threatening you, I had no alternative, but I must be here when he recovers his senses. I will try to explain. Maybe if I am lucky, he will not have me executed.
JANEWAY: We are leaving. Your time here is over.
DA VINCI: I will not leave this New World.
JANEWAY: Your new world is a prison. You are under his control.
DA VINCI: When are we not in prison? Hmm? When are our lives free from the influence of those who have more power than us? If this New World is a cage, then it is a cage of gold, of marvels, of opportunities. If this Prince is violent, violence can be tempered.
JANEWAY: You can't stay here forever, Leonardo. Europe is your home.
DA VINCI: Europe is despicable! Here I am free to do what I wish. Free from judgment, free to fail, but without a sense of shame, without, without the taunts of the ignorant.
JANEWAY: Leonardo, whether you want to admit it or not they do need you back home. In Florence, Milan, Avignon, they need your genius, they need your heart. And right now I need you, too. So come on.
DA VINCI: I will not go for Florence or Milan or Avignon. But for you, Catarina, for you I will go.

[Bridge]

KIM: I've lost the Captain's comm. badge signature.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for the holoemitter.
KIM: It's four point seven kilometres outside the city.
PARIS: So Leonardo's on the move. Is the captain with him?
CHAKOTAY: Her comm. badge may have malfunctioned.
PARIS: Or she may have been discovered.
KIM: Should I beam da Vinci back to the ship?
TUVOK: If the captain is with him and attempting to recover the processor, she may need his assistance.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a lock on the mobile emitter and stand by.
KIM: Aye, sir.

[Storage facility - outside]

JANEWAY: Where's the entrance?
DA VINCI: I can't recall.
JANEWAY: Why not?
DA VINCI: These fortresses, I've been to half a dozen of them. All are similar but each is different.
(They hang back as a guard patrols, then move forward as the tricorder scans.)
DA VINCI: Catarina, observe the construction, like the veins and arteries of a great animal. Now, this is the way to build, using nature as your guide.
JANEWAY: No more lessons. I need to get into this building and I need to get into it now.
DA VINCI: That is not the way an apprentice should address her master.
JANEWAY: Maestro, your Prince is going to come after us. The only escape is inside.
DA VINCI: Escape? We will be trapped inside.
JANEWAY: No. There is a wondrous invention inside this building. It's called a computer processor. We can use it to send a beacon to the Portuguese ship, and they'll come and rescue us.
DA VINCI: Computer. This invention, how does it work?
JANEWAY: Well, it's complicated, but trust me when I say it can send messages over great distances. All we have to do is find it and we will be rescued. But the question is, how do we get inside?
DA VINCI: Shadow and sunlight. Shadow and sunlight. The Prince, like any other thief, will fear theft above all else. So this stronghold will have but one entryway, on the side facing away from the sun.
JANEWAY: So the bright light will be in the eyes of anyone who might attack.
DA VINCI: Esato.
(Janeway unlocks the door.)

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm no longer reading the mobile emitter.
TUVOK: They've gone inside the structure.
KIM: Commander, they're being pursued. Over thirty armed guards are converging on the storage facility.
CHAKOTAY: All available power to the transporters. Let's try to get them out of there.

[Storage facility]

DA VINCI: Even Theseus could not negotiate this labyrinth.
JANEWAY: Not without a compass.
DA VINCI: Your compass is speaking to you.
JANEWAY: This way.
DA VINCI: A trove of invention.
JANEWAY: The Prince has done well for himself. Phasers, warp plasma injectors, a site-to-site transporter.
DA VINCI: Your computer?
JANEWAY: Yes. Computer, do you recognise my voice?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Well, that's a start.
DA VINCI: Che bella! There's a mechanical woman inside.
JANEWAY: In a way, yes. Initiate a level four induction relay overload.
COMPUTER: That procedure is not recommended.
JANEWAY: Command override. Janeway pi one one zero.
COMPUTER: Authorisation confirmed. Initiating overload.
JANEWAY: That's it.
DA VINCI: And now?
JANEWAY: We wait for the Portuguese.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Commander. I'm detecting a power surge in the subspace frequency range.
CHAKOTAY: Could be the processor. Lock on. Increase power to the confinement beam. With any luck, we might be able to pull the captain out of there along with it.

[Storage facility]

(The computer's hum rises in pitch.)
JANEWAY: Step close, Leonardo. We're going for a ride.
DA VINCI: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Trust me.
(A guard shoots at them. They hide and the computer processor is beamed away without them. Another shot passes through da Vinci. Janeway goes around a piece of equipment and knocks out the approaching guard.)
JANEWAY: The building is probably surrounded by now. There's only one way out. Maestro, come here.
DA VINCI: Catarina, what just happened to me? I was shot, yet I live. Such things are not possible.
JANEWAY: This is an invention from another land. It's called a site to site transporter. In the blink of an eye, it can move us out of this building and a few kilometres away from here.
DA VINCI: How?
JANEWAY: Come on.
DA VINCI: I must have an explanation.
JANEWAY: Leonardo, you've always said that it's a poor apprentice who can't surpass her master. There are things in this world that I understand, and you don't.
(Her tricorder interfaces with the transporter, and they are beamed away.)
DA VINCI: Madonna mia.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: The processor is on board.
CHAKOTAY: The captain?
TUVOK: Still on the planet.
KIM: Commander. Thirteen vessels are approaching Voyager from the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, take us into a higher orbit. Bridge to Torres. I want that processor back online. We've still got a captain down there.
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Hillside]

DA VINCI: I cannot believe it. I will not believe it. My mind cannot accept the evidence of my eyes. Is this sorcery? Are we in Purgatory?
JANEWAY: Neither. You said yourself this place was full of marvels.
DA VINCI: Marvels, yes, but this is magic. Enchantment, not science. And I refuse to believe in enchantment.
JANEWAY: I'll explain later. We've got to keep moving.
DA VINCI: No! I must understand. Catarina, to see objects disappear into thin air. To see lightning pass through my body. Are we spirits? Catarina, am I dead?
JANEWAY: Let me ask you something. If you were something other than a human being. If you were a different kind of animal. If you were a small bird, a sparrow. What would your world be like?
DA VINCI: I should make my home in a tree, in the branch of an elm. I should hunt insects for food, straw for my nest, and in the springtime I should sing for a companion.
JANEWAY: And you would know nothing of the politics of Florence, the cutting of marble or mathematics?
DA VINCI: Of course not.
JANEWAY: But why not?
DA VINCI: My mind would be too small.
JANEWAY: As a sparrow your mind would be too small? Even with the best of teachers?
DA VINCI: If Aristotle himself were to perch on my branch and lecture till he fell off from exhaustion, still the limits of my mind would prevent me from understanding.
JANEWAY: And as a man, can you accept that there may be certain realities beyond the limits of your comprehension?
DA VINCI: I could not accept that. And I would be a fool.
MEN [OC]: Spread out.
JANEWAY: Come on.
DA VINCI: Catarina, this way. Up the hill. I know just the escape.

[Engineering]

TORRES: Torres to bridge. We're in business. We've got full navigation, full propulsion

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: And full transporters.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, B'Elanna.
KIM: Sensors show the captain and Da Vinci have left the structure. If we can dip into a lower orbit I should be able to lock onto the mobile emitter.
CHAKOTAY: Set the confinement beam wide and prepare to beam both of them back to the ship. How close do we have to be?
KIM: At least five hundred kilometres from the surface.
TUVOK: Those ships will try to block our descent.
CHAKOTAY: Ready for some fancy flying?
PARIS: You bet.

[[Hillside]

(da Vinci is out of breath from climbing the steep slope.)
DA VINCI: Momento, Catarina. Escape, signorina, is very near.
JANEWAY: I'm starting to wonder. Where are you, Chakotay?
DA VINCI: Help me to the summit.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're at one thousand kilometres, nine fifty, nine hundred.
TUVOK: The ships are powering weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Go to Red alert.
(The ships start firing at Voyager.)
TUVOK: Shields are holding.
PARIS: Eight hundred and fifty kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres.

[Hillside]

DA VINCI: When Petrarch climbed Mount Verdoun, and saw all Europe below him, he knew he was witnessing the birth of a new age. He was witnessing the Renaissance. The rebirth of our world. So, Catarina, at this summit here, you and I will be reborn. Reborn, with wings.
(The Great Bird is here, a massive hang-glider.)
JANEWAY: This could be a problem.
DA VINCI: Hurry. There's not much time.

[Bridge]

KIM: Sir, they seem to be on the edge of a precipice, but we're still too high for transport.

[Hillside]

JANEWAY: You've made some improvements.
DA VINCI: I took your advice after the last attempt, and increased the reach of the wings.
JANEWAY: And the angle of attack?
DA VINCI: Yes, yes, that too. Unfortunately, the river Arno is quite absent. This time, if we fail, only the stones will break our fall.
JANEWAY: The wing is stationary. That's good. This looks like duranium alloy. Should be light enough.
DA VINCI: Catarina, this time it will work.
(Their pursuers fire at them.)
JANEWAY: Let's find out.

[Bridge]

KIM: I'm reading weapons fire on the surface near the captain's position. We're running out of time, sir.
PARIS: Seven hundred kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on, Kathryn. Just a few more seconds.

[Hillside]

DA VINCI: Together, up. (They push the Great Bird forward on its wheels.)
JANEWAY: Andiamo.
(It runs off the cliff and glides into the air.)
DA VINCI: Catarina, we're flying!
JANEWAY: Like the birds!
DA VINCI: Like the birds!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I have a fix on the captain. They are in mid-air, on what appears to be a crude gliding apparatus.
PARIS: Five hundred kilometres.
KIM: I'm locking on. Broad confinement beam.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.
(The Great Bird and its passengers are beamed away.)
KIM: Got them. I've beamed the whole contraption into Cargo Bay one.
CHAKOTAY: Get us out of here, Mister Paris.

Captain's log, stardate 51408.3. We're back on course to the Alpha Quadrant. With the ship's computer and the Doctor's emitter returned to proper places, I've set aside some time to check on the Maestro.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci's Workshop]

JANEWAY: Leonardo, where are you going?
DA VINCI: France. These Florentines do not deserve my genius. I have written to the King of France telling him of my adventures in the New World, and invited him to soar with me from the towers of his castle.
JANEWAY: Are you sure that's a good idea?
DA VINCI: Why not? We ourselves have tested the design.
JANEWAY: But the materials. You'll never find those metals in France.
DA VINCI: No? Then others will suffice. Machines that fly through the air. Lightning flung from one's hands. Mechanical women who live in boxes. These things I have seen. And these things I must recreate. And who knows, possibly improve upon.
JANEWAY: Leonardo, I think that little flight of ours went to your head.
DA VINCI: And my heart. My oldest memory, Catarina, is of a great bird perched on my bed, its feathers open towards me as if summoning me. You yourself have accused me of giving up, of failing to complete my projects.
JANEWAY: I was trying to encourage you.
DA VINCI: No, you we're right. All my life I have wanted to fly. Perhaps my failure to do so has caused my heart to remain in flight, leaping from one thing to another, never satisfied, never complete.
JANEWAY: And now that you've actually flown?
DA VINCI: Now who knows what I cannot accomplish.
JANEWAY: I'd like to find out. Give my regards to the king of France.
DA VINCI: Catarina, will you walk with me to my carriage?
JANEWAY: It would be my pleasure.
(They leave behind a drawing of a bird in a cage.)


S4 E12
Mortal Coil
Stardate: 51449.3
Original Airdate: 17 December 1997

[Mess hall]
(Neelix refills a woman's cup.)
CREWWOMAN: Thank you.
(He goes to another table.)
NEELIX: Oh, you look like a man who could use more coffee.
KIM: Keep it coming. I'm working on my monthly ops report. So much has happened in the last few weeks on this ship, I'm going to be up all night.
NEELIX: This firenut blend should keep you eyes open.
KIM: Potent stuff! Thanks.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: I know you have your hands full this evening, but I could use your help.
NEELIX: At your service, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're approaching a class one nebula. Sensors are picking up traces of protomatter inside. I understand you've dealt with it before?
NEELIX: Absolutely. When I was making my living as a trader. Protomatter's one of the most sought-after commodities. It's the best energy source in the Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: We could use your expertise in collecting a sample. We're leaving at fourteen hundred hours. See you in the shuttlebay?
NEELIX: I'll be there, sir.

[Galley]

SEVEN: These nutritional supplements are unacceptable.
(Seven is holding a tray of limp leaves and other vegetables.)
NEELIX: What's wrong?
SEVEN: They are pungent.
NEELIX: That's the whole idea. I've been adding Talaxian spices to broaden your palette.
SEVEN: My palette is sufficiently broad.
NEELIX: Why settle for sufficient? The Doctor tells me you have a full complement of taste buds. You've hardly begun to use them. Come by the mess hall Thursday night. It's the first day of Prixin. We'll have an impressive array of exotic cuisine.
SEVEN: Prixin?
NEELIX: The Talaxian celebration of family. We observe it every year on Voyager. Now that you're part of the family
SEVEN: What should I do to prepare?
NEELIX: Nothing. It's not a mission, Seven, it's a party.
WILDMAN [OC]: Ensign Wildman to Neelix.
NEELIX: Neelix here.
WILDMAN [OC]: I hate to bother you, but Naomi's having trouble getting to sleep again. Would you mind?
NEELIX: No bother at all. I'm on my way. If you'll excuse me, duty calls.
SEVEN: Naomi? I don't recall that designation on the crew manifest.
NEELIX: That's because she's not a member of the crew. Naomi was the first child born on Voyager. I'm her godfather, and the only one who can get her to sleep lately. Bon appétit.

[Wildman's quarters]

(Neelix checks under the cushions of the sofa.)
NEELIX: No monsters here.
NAOMI: Good. Check the replicator.
NEELIX: Nothing.
WILDMAN: Naomi, maybe Neelix should check your room so you can go to bed.
NAOMI: Okay. In there.
(A storage box.)
NEELIX: Nobody here.
NAOMI: There.
(The bed.)
NEELIX: Ah, there's not a monster in sight.
NAOMI: Can you stay longer? I'm afraid to go to sleep.
WILDMAN: Honey, Neelix has to go to work.
NEELIX: It's all right. You know what I think about when I'm afraid to go to sleep?
NAOMI: No. What?
NEELIX: The Great Forest.
NAOMI: What's that?
NEELIX: It's a place my people believe we're all going to go to someday. It's a beautiful, beautiful forest filled with sunlight, and all the people who ever loved me are gathered there to watch over me as I sleep, to protect me.
NAOMI: Really?
NEELIX: When I think about that Forest and those people, I'm not afraid to sleep anymore.
NAOMI: Do you think those people watch over me too?
NEELIX: I know they do. Now, I'm going to be away for the next couple of days. So, if you're afraid to sleep I want you to think of that Great Forest.
NAOMI: All right.
NEELIX: Pleasant dreams.
NAOMI: Night, Neelix.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Neelix enters, looking for something.)
NEELIX: Cylinder.
(Seven steps out of her alcove.)
NEELIX: Oh! Sorry. I didn't realise you were home.
SEVEN: I was regenerating.
NEELIX: I see.
SEVEN: Do you require assistance?
NEELIX: No, no, no. I have a small containment cylinder stored here. I'll just be a minute. Cylinder? Little cylinder, where are you? Cylinder, you were here a month ago. Now I know that you didn't just roll out of the airlock all by yourself. Now where are you? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm talking to myself. It's my way of remembering things.
SEVEN: You are a peculiar creature, Neelix.
NEELIX: Thanks. I think. Ah! Here it is. Oh, this will be perfect for containing a small amount of protomatter. Last time I used this little wonder I nearly lost it to the Kazon.
SEVEN: The Kazon. Species three two nine.
NEELIX: You're familiar with them.
SEVEN: The Borg encountered a Kazon colony in the Gand Sector, grid six nine two zero.
NEELIX: Were they assimilated?
SEVEN: Their biological and technological distinctiveness was unremarkable. They were unworthy of assimilation.
NEELIX: I didn't realise the Borg were so discriminating.
SEVEN: Why assimilate a species that would detract from perfection?
NEELIX: Good point. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'm needed in the shuttlebay. Pleasant regenerating.

[Shuttlecraft]

(Flying into the nebula.)
PARIS: One day a week, that's all I ask. How hard can it be?
NEELIX: Harder than you think.
PARIS: Neelix, it's pizza. Bread, tomatoes, cheese
NEELIX: The cheese alone would take days. Separating curds and whey from synthesised milk. It's a delicate process.
PARIS: So replicate the cheese.
NEELIX: Since it means so much to you, I'll see what I can do.
PARIS: Thanks. There's a concentration of protomatter directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix?
NEELIX: Set the transporter for ten thousand amu's, not a particle more. The containment field is standing by.
PARIS: We're in range.
CHAKOTAY: Energising.
(Energy flares from the pillar of gas in the nebula. One hits the shuttlecraft.)
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
PARIS: The transporter beam ignited the protomatter. Shields are weakening.
CHAKOTAY: Disengage transport.
PARIS: Shields are down.
(Neelix' cylinder is filled with glowing green.)
NEELIX: I've got the sample, Commander, and it's stable.
(An energy blast strikes Neelix in the chest, throwing him backwards. Paris goes to him while Chakotay flies them out of danger.)
CHAKOTAY: We're clear of the protomatter. How's Neelix?
PARIS: He's dead. No heart beat, no synaptic response, extensive cell damage to his brain.
CHAKOTAY: Try a cortical stimulator.
PARIS: It won't work. His neural pathways were disrupted by the protomatter.
CHAKOTAY: Set the stimulator for an autonomic bypass. At least we can get his vitals going.
PARIS: It's too late for that. The damage was too severe.
(Bang!)
CHAKOTAY: We're running into more protomatter. I need your help.

Captain's log, stardate 51449.2. After receiving a distress call from Commander Chakotay, we've sent a beacon into the nebula and we're in the process of tracking down the away team.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, I'm detecting the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: No response.
TUVOK: The shuttle's primary systems are offline. Lifesigns, only two.
JANEWAY: Are they within transporter range?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Beam them directly to Sickbay. Harry, put a tractor on the shuttlecraft. Tuvok. you've got the bridge.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I ran a complete postmortem analysis. There was nothing you could have done.
PARIS: I knew we were too close to the protomatter. I should have said something.
CHAKOTAY: Nobody could have predicted this, Tom.
EMH: How shall I proceed?
JANEWAY: The Talaxians mourn their dead for a full week, in a specific burial ceremony. And that's just what we're going to do.
CHAKOTAY: I'll inform the crew.
JANEWAY: I'll check Neelix's personal database, see what I can find out about the ceremony. We'll have it in the mess hall. Somehow that feels appropriate.
(Seven enters.)
SEVEN: Neelix is dead?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so.
SEVEN: His neural pathways, are they intact?
EMH: Yes, but there's no metabolic activity.
SEVEN: How long has he been dead?
JANEWAY: Seven, I understand
SEVEN: How long?
CHAKOTAY: It's been eighteen hours.
SEVEN: Then it's not too late to reactivate him.
PARIS: What are you saying? You can bring Neelix back to life?
SEVEN: That's precisely what I'm saying. The Borg have assimilated species with far greater medical knowledge than your own. We are capable of reactivating drones as much as seventy three hours after what you would call death.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix wasn't a Borg drone.
SEVEN: We will adapt.
EMH: What does this procedure involve?
SEVEN: Nanoprobes are used to reverse cellular necrosis, while the cerebral cortex is stimulated with a neuroelectric isopulse.
EMH: But there's nothing left to stimulate. His brain functions are gone.
SEVEN: By your narrow definition, perhaps, but not by mine. You will extract seventy micrograms of nanoprobes from my bloodstream. I will modify them to match his Talaxian physiology. His function in this crew is diverse. If you wish to salvage him we must proceed immediately.
PARIS: I say we let her try.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Tom, please. No one's ever been resuscitated after being dead for eighteen hours. If this procedure does work, what are the chances that Neelix would come out of it unaffected?
EMH: She's right. The damage to his cerebral cortex was severe.
SEVEN: The nanoprobes will compensate for any cellular degradation. Captain, a decision has to be made quickly.
JANEWAY: Doctor, give Seven whatever assistance she needs. Proceed.
EMH: Captain
JANEWAY: Do it. If there's a chance we can revive Neelix, we're got to take it. Keep me informed.
(Later -)
SEVEN: The nanoprobes are ready. We should begin.
EMH: Hold on. I want to check his blood viscosity.
SEVEN: The cadaver has been sufficiently prepared.
EMH: And they say I have a lousy bedside manner.
(Seven injects Neelix with the nanoprobes.)
SEVEN: Set neuroelectric isopulses for one second intervals.
EMH: Ready.
SEVEN: Now.
(Neelix jerks. Biomedical scan 0208 shows the results.)
SEVEN: Neural activity at nine percent, ten percent, twelve percent.
EMH: This is incredible. His intracerebral blood pressure, his synaptic responses, they're all returning to normal.
SEVEN: The alveoli in his lung are regenerating. They should be functional
(Neelix takes a breath.)
SEVEN: Now. Neural activity at fifty two percent and rising.
(Neelix starts to fit.)
EMH: His neurotransmitter levels are rising too fast.
SEVEN: We must stabilise his motor neurones.
EMH: I'm going to try reducing his acetocholine levels. It might be enough to
NEELIX: Doctor.
(Neelix has sat up.)
EMH: Neelix.
NEELIX: What happened. What happened? Why am, why am I here?
(The EMH makes Neelix lie down again. Seven looks smug. And later -)
NEELIX: Dead?
EMH: For eighteen hours, forty nine minutes, thirteen seconds. Congratulations, Mister Neelix. You've just set a new world record.
NEELIX: That's impossible. You mean I lost consciousness. I was, I was in a coma.
SEVEN: No. You were dead.
NEELIX: I'm stunned. I'm amazed. I'm grateful. Thank you, Doctor.
JANEWAY: Actually, you can thank Seven of Nine. The procedure was her idea.
NEELIX: Yours?
SEVEN: The Borg have assimilated the technique from species one four nine. I simply modified it. But you are welcome.
NEELIX: Am I good as new?
EMH: That remains to be seen. There's no way to tell if your body will successfully take over the functions the nanoprobes are serving.
NEELIX: Nanoprobes?
JANEWAY: It was necessary, to repair the necrotised tissue.
EMH: Until I'm certain the damaged tissue can function independently, you'll have to be injected with nanoprobes on a daily basis.
NEELIX: Well, as long as I don't start assimilating the crew or sprouting Borg implants, I'm sure I can live with it.
EMH: I'm releasing you to your quarters. Your body's been through quite a shock, so try to get some rest. Report to Sickbay tomorrow at oh eight hundred hours for your next injection.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: The shuttle mission, was it a success? Did we get the protomatter?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not. The sample you collected destabilised before it got back to Voyager.
NEELIX: The containment field needs to be reinforced next time.
JANEWAY: If there is a next time. I've asked Chakotay to find out exactly what caused the accident, and unless we can take additional precautions I'm not sending another team into that nebula.
NEELIX: I could help with that investigation.
JANEWAY: No. You are taking some time off, and that's an order.
NEELIX: No, Captain, please. I don't need any special treatment.
JANEWAY: Neelix, you've just returned from the dead. Go easy on yourself.
NEELIX: Yes, I suppose you're right. Oh, but you can't ask me to cancel the first night of Prixin. The celebration is in three days.
JANEWAY: Oh, I almost forgot.
NEELIX: I've been aging fruit compote in moolt nectar for weeks now. I can't just let it go to waste.
JANEWAY: Only if you feel up to it. Could you not ferment those compotes so long this time, because last year I got a little light-headed.
NEELIX: I'll make the necessary adjustments.
JANEWAY: It's good to have you back.
NEELIX: It's good to be back, Captain.

[Neelix's quarters]

(Neelix looks at his sculpture of the Guiding Tree.)
NEELIX: Alixia? Why weren't you there?

[Corridor]

SEVEN: Human attitudes toward death are perplexing.
TUVOK: How so?
SEVEN: Too much importance is placed on it. There seem to be countless rituals and cultural beliefs designed to alleviate their fear of a simple biological truth. All organisms eventually perish.
TUVOK: I take it the Borg have no fear of that biological truth.
SEVEN: None. When a drone is damaged beyond repair, it is discarded. But it's memories continue to exist in the Collective consciousness. To use a human term, the Borg are immortal.
TUVOK: You are no longer part of the Collective. You are mortal now like the rest of us. Does that disturb you?
SEVEN: My connection to the Borg has been severed, but the Collective still possesses my recollections, my experiences. In a sense, I will always exist.
TUVOK: Fascinating. That must be a great relief.
SEVEN: Yes, it is.

[Engineering]

PARIS: I've sealed the fractures in the shuttle nacelle. The rest of the repairs should be completed by morning.
CHAKOTAY: Good. How are you coming?
TORRES: I found a small phase variance in the transporter logs. I think it was responsible for igniting the protomatter. I've remodulated the transporter beam to compensate.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. I'll be in holodeck two. I've created a simulation of the shuttle accident, to see if there's anything we've overlooked.

[Corridor]

NEELIX: Commander. Commander, I thought you might need some assistance on the holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: If you're feeling up to it.
NEELIX: Well, I'm up to anything at this point. I've been resting for two days straight and resting makes me feel, well, restless.

[Holodeck - Shuttlecraft interior]

CHAKOTAY: I've programmed the simulation to start when we found the protomatter. Why don't you monitor the containment field readings?
NEELIX: Gladly.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, display shuttle crew excluding myself and begin programme.
HOLO-PARIS: There's a concentration of protomatter directly ahead.
HOLO-NEELIX: Set the transporter for ten thousand amu's, not a particle more. The containment field is standing by.
HOLO-PARIS: We're in range. The transporter beam ignited the protomatter.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme. Looks like there was a problem with the pattern buffer. It might have created a feedback loop along the transporter beam.
NEELIX: Sounds right.
CHAKOTAY: Let's keep an eye on it. See what happened at the moment of impact. Computer, resume programme.
HOLO-PARIS: Shields are weakening. Shields are down.
HOLO-NEELIX: I've got the sample, Commander, and it's stable. Let's get out of here.
(Holo-Neelix gets blasted backwards.)
NEELIX: Computer, freeze programme. (Neelix kneels by his facsimile.)
NEELIX: Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: What?
NEELIX: I died, and there was nothing. There was no one there. No Forest.
CHAKOTAY: Forest?
NEELIX: The Great Forest. The afterlife. I was taught that when I died my ancestors would be there, waiting for me by the Guiding Tree. My sisters, my mother and father, my cousings. Everyone who was killed in the war. I took great comfort in knowing that we'd all be together again one day. But it's not true.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we pulled you back before any of that could happen.
NEELIX: No. I was dead for eighteen hours. I should have experienced something, should remember something. It's just a story, a myth. There is no Guiding Tree. No gathering of the ancestors.
CHAKOTAY: You can't be certain of that. Don't throw away a lifetime of faith because of one anomalous incident. Death is still the greatest mystery there is.
NEELIX: I was there. I experienced it. There was nothing.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, delete characters.
NEELIX: That's what's going to happen to all of us. Like a hologram, we just disappear into nothing.

[Mess hall]

(The Prixin feast has started. Most people are in casual clothes.)
TUVOK: Attention, attention. If I may have everyone's attention.
(No one takes any notice.)
PARIS: You might want to try the old glass and spoon approach.
TUVOK: Glass and spoon?
PARIS: Excuse me.
(Paris taps a spoon against a glass. The chattering stops.)
TUVOK: Thank you. Welcome to the first night of Prixin, the Talaxian observance of familial allegiance. This year, Mister Neelix has requested that I commence the celebration with the traditional salutation. We do not stand alone. We are in the arms of family. Father, mother, sister, brother. Father's father, father's mother, father's brother, mother's brother. Suffice to say, the list is extensive. We gather on this day to extol the warmth and joy of those unshakable bonds. Without them, we could not call ourselves complete. On this day, we are thankful to be together. We do not stand alone.
JANEWAY: Indeed we do not.
(Hear, hear and applause.)
PARIS: A few days ago we almost lost a member of our family. I don't know about how the rest of you feel, but it scared the hell out of me. Neelix, you still don't know how to make a pizza, but I'm glad you're here.
JANEWAY: So am I. Here's to you, Neelix.
ALL: Speech, speech, speech!
NEELIX: Thank you, everyone. Well, er, enjoy. Computer, music.
CHAKOTAY: You all right?
NEELIX: Fine, Commander, fine. I apologise for the other day on the holodeck. I guess this whole back from the dead thing is hard to get used to. I'm fine now.
CHAKOTAY: If you ever want to talk, you know where to find me.
JANEWAY: Having fun?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: That's probably because you've been standing here by yourself.
SEVEN: I don't understand the rules and procedures for this type of social occasion.
JANEWAY: The rules are simple. Choose a group of people. Listen to their conversation. Then, when you feel you have something to contribute, chime in.
SEVEN: Chime in?
JANEWAY: Say something. Join the discussion.
SEVEN: I will try, Captain.
EMH: The early stages of Ktarian development are astounding. Naomi has grown five centimetres since her last physical, and that was only three weeks ago.
WILDMAN: It seems like every time I turn around I'm recycling her clothes back into the replicator.
SEVEN: Children assimilated by the Borg are placed in maturation chambers for seventeen cycles.
WILDMAN: Interesting. Well, if you'll excuse me, I need to go talk to Neelix.
EMH: In these maturation chambers, the development of conversational skills is, I suppose, a low priority?

[Galley]

WILDMAN: Neelix.
(Neelix is startled, and drops a tray.)
WILDMAN: Oh, I'm sorry.
NEELIX: No, no, no, it's all right.
WILDMAN: We haven't seen you in a few days.
NEELIX: I've been a little preoccupied.
WILDMAN: I understand. Naomi's been asking about you.
NEELIX: Really?
WILDMAN: She misses you. Frankly, so do I. She's had trouble sleeping every night this week. Only Neelix can tuck me in. I want Neelix.
NEELIX: Sounds familiar.
WILDMAN: Maybe you could stop by later just to say hello.
NEELIX: Why don't, why don't I go now? It's close to Naomi's bedtime.
WILDMAN: Are you sure? Prixin's your favourite holiday.
NEELIX: Yes, but duty calls.

[Naomi's bedroom]

NEELIX: Attention all monsters. Get out of this room.
NAOMI: My bed.
NEELIX: Oh, there's no monsters here.
(He pulls back the blanket to reveal a fluffy toy.)
NEELIX: Ah, it's a monster!
NAOMI: Scared you!
NEELIX: You certainly did. Pleasant dreams, sweeting.
NAOMI: Can you stay longer? I want to hear about the Great Forest again.
NEELIX: The Great Forest?
NAOMI: The special place. The place you think about when you can't sleep.
NEELIX: Are you sure you want to hear about that? It's just a silly old story.
NAOMI: Please.
NEELIX: Well, it's a beautiful place filled with sunlight.
NAOMI: And all the people who ever loved me.
NEELIX: Yes. They've all gathered there to watch over you, to protect you while you sleep.
NAOMI: I had a dream about the Great Forest last night.
NEELIX: You did?
NAOMI: There was trees and grass and animals, and I saw you and Mommy and we were all happy.
NEELIX: Sounds like a nice dream.
NAOMI: It was beautiful.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix is clearing up after the party. Seven enters.)
SEVEN: The Doctor asked me to run a haemotological scan.
NEELIX: Why?
SEVEN: To regulate the dosage of nanoprobes for your next injection.
NEELIX: Go ahead. How much longer will I be needing these injections?
SEVEN: Till your damaged cells can function on their own.
NEELIX: I don't really like the idea of Borg technology swimming around inside me.
SEVEN: That is irrelevant. You need the nanoprobes to live.
NEELIX: Live? Oh, is that what I am doing right now? Living? I'm beginning to wonder.
SEVEN: By most definitions you are alive.
NEELIX: Well, part of me isn't alive.
SEVEN: Which part are you referring to?
NEELIX: I don't know, but something is missing. I don't feel like Neelix anymore. Maybe Neelix is gone? Maybe he died, and I'm all that's left.
SEVEN: Stop moving and allow me to complete the scan.
NEELIX: I didn't ask to be bought back!
SEVEN: You were dead at the time.
NEELIX: Well, what right did you have to violate me? You Borg think you can fix anything but you didn't fix me!
SEVEN: There was no alternative.
NEELIX: Get out. Just leave me alone! I said get out!
SEVEN: I would be negligent in my duties if I did that.
NEELIX: I don't care about your duties. I don't care
(Neelix gasps, and gropes his way to a seat.)
NEELIX: What's, what's happening to me?
SEVEN: Your cells are returning to a necrotic state. We must get you to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: His tissue began rejecting the nanoprobes, causing spontaneous necrosis throughout his body.
SEVEN: We modified the nanoprobes to compensate and it appears to be working. Neelix is stable, for now.
JANEWAY: How do we know this won't happen again?
EMH: We don't. I've designed a monitor for Neelix to wear that will alert us at the first sign of necrosis, and we'll continue with the daily injections. Beyond that, I'm afraid it's a matter of maintenance. He may have to live with this condition for the rest of his life. He wants to speak with you, Commander.
(Chakotay goes to Neelix' bedside.)
NEELIX: Commander, you said if I ever needed anything? You once told me your people have technology that can induce a deep meditation, an altered state of consciousness.
CHAKOTAY: The akoonah.
NEELIX: That this device allows you to look inside yourself, ask questions that you might otherwise be afraid to ask.
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
NEELIX: That's what I need. I need to look inside myself, figure out what's happening to me. I need answers. Will you help me, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: All right. But I want you to understand, the vision quest isn't a quick fix. It'll take time to interpret the images, and there's no guarantee you'll find what you're looking for.
NEELIX: I understand. What should I do to prepare?
CHAKOTAY: You'll need a medicine bundle. Items that define you. Things that will ground you, allow you to take the journey into yourself.
NEELIX: I'll get ready.

[Neelix's quarters]

(A pendant of beads is placed on the skin.)
NEELIX: This belonged to my sister, Alixia. She made it during her expedition to the dunes of Talmouth. A flower from Kes' garden. And last but not least, the Guiding Tree. It stands at the centre of Talaxian afterlife, deep inside the Great Forest. It's there to help us find our way when we first arrive. At least, that's what I used to believe. Not a very impressive medicine bundle, is it?
CHAKOTAY: It'll do fine. Now place your hand on the akoonah.
NEELIX: Am I doing this right?
CHAKOTAY: Try to relax. Clear your mind of everything but the objects before you. Focus on them. Nothing else exists. A-koo-chee-moya. We are far from the sacred places of our grandfathers. We are far from the bones of our people. We come here seeking guidance. It's time, Neelix. Try to leave this room, this ship, and go to a place where you were the most peaceful and content you have ever been. That's where your journey will begin.

[Vision Quest - Mess hall]

(The Prixin party.)
PARIS: Neelix. Good to have you back.
NEELIX: it's good to be back, Lieutenant.
(Neelix sees a Talaxian woman talking to Janeway.)
NEELIX: Alixia? Alixia, it's me, Neelix. Over here. (But his way is blocked by other people. When he reaches Janeway, she is alone.)
NEELIX: Captain! My sister, she was just standing here talking to you.
JANEWAY: The dead girl. Oh yes, very charming. I can see the family resemblance.
NEELIX: Alixia!
(Alixia leaves the mess hall. Neelix tries to follow her, but is stopped by Seven.)
SEVEN: You will be assimilated.
NEELIX: No time for that now. Maybe later.
KIM: Potent stuff.

[Vision Quest - Great Forest]

NEELIX: The lights. It's beautiful.
ALIXIA: Yes. It's just like you always imagined it would be. The trees, the sunlight, and everyone who ever loved you.
NEELIX: When I died, I looked for you, but you weren't there. Why weren't you there?
ALIXIA: Because it's all a lie.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
ALIXIA: You've wasted your entire life believing lies. The Great Forest? The afterlife? It's all created out of your fear of death. None of it's real.
NEELIX: If that's true, what's the point of living?
ALIXIA: There isn't any. That's what you're finally starting to realise. (Naomi's voice) I'm afraid to go to sleep. tell me about the Great Forest, Neelix. Tell me about the trees, and the grass, and all the people who loved you!
NEELIX: Why are you saying these things?
ALIXIA [Naomi's voice]: Scared you!
(Alixia crumbles to dust. The sky darkens. Neelix walks to a stone slab and pulls the sheet back to reveal his dead self.)
NEELIX [as corpse]: You died on that shuttlecraft, Neelix. They never should have brought you back. It was a mistake, and you know it. Now accept it. You know what you have to do.
NEELIX: No.

[Vision Quest - Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: It's all a lie. They lied to you.

[Vision Quest - Naomi's bedroom]

NAOMI: You know what you have to do.

[Vision Quest - Mess hall]

TUVOK: We gather on this day to tell Neelix what he must do.
JANEWAY: You stand alone.
SEVEN: Life is irrelevant.
TORRES: Let go.
KIM: It's pointless.
CHAKOTAY: It's a lie.
EMH: You know what you have to do.
NEELIX: No!
(Neelix returns from his quest, upset.)

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, there you are. I didn't see you.
SEVEN: Are you looking for me?
NEELIX: Yes, as a matter of fact I am. I hope I'm not disturbing you.
SEVEN: You are not.
NEELIX: I, I want to apologise for my outburst the other day. In the mess hall?
SEVEN: No apology is necessary.
NEELIX: No, no, please. My behaviour was uncalled for. I didn't mean the things I said. I wasn't myself. But I feel much better now. Commander Chakotay has helped me to understand a few things. I want you to know that I don't blame you for bringing me back. To life, I mean. In fact, what you did was very thoughtful.
SEVEN: I would have done the same for any member of this crew.
NEELIX: Yes, I'm sure you would have.
SEVEN: Is there something else?
NEELIX: No. Yes. Seven, I think you've made a wonderful addition to this crew. I know it's been difficult for you making the transition from Borg back to human. Or half human. Or whatever it is you've become. Actually, you're just plain Seven to me.
SEVEN: Your point, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: I guess I just want to say. You're surrounded by people who care about you, and whether you know it or not Voyager is going to be a very good home to you. It certainly was to me.
SEVEN: Was? Do you intend to leave?
NEELIX: Leave? No, I'll be around. Well, goodbye.
SEVEN: Goodbye.

[Mess hall]

(Neelix is straightening the chairs when Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: What happened to you this morning?
NEELIX: I'm sorry I had to cancel our little chat, but I was needed in the mess hall. I've been so busy the last few days, I've let things slip around here.
CHAKOTAY: You're not holding up your end of the bargain.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: When you asked me to guide you on a vision quest, I agreed. But I also told you it was part of an ongoing process. We're supposed to be discussing your progress. 

[Galley]

NEELIX: What's left to say? I've told you I saw my sister, the Great Forest. I feel a sense of peace I've never felt in my entire life. It worked.
CHAKOTAY: You've only lived with the visions for a couple of days. That's not enough time to draw any conclusions. You've got to reflect on the images, examine them. Allow them to stay alive in your mind. A vision quest isn't just a dream you dismiss after your first cup of coffee.
NEELIX: I understand.
CHAKOTAY: Good. I get off duty at fourteen hundred hours. Meet me in my quarters and we'll begin. That's an order.
NEELIX: Yes, sir.
(Chakotay leaves. A few moments later, Neelix follows.)
NEELIX: Computer, lights off.

[Neelix's quarters]

(Neelix is recording a message.)
NEELIX: And finally, Mister Tuvok. I'm grateful for the opportunity I had to win your respect. Your strength and your wisdom were an inspiration to me, and I can only hope that your memory of me will serve to inspire you in some way. It was an honour to spend my last years on Voyager, with this crew. I want to thank all of you for your kindness and your companionship. Goodbye. Computer, end log. Encode for delivery to Captain Janeway in one hour.
(Neelix goes to a transporter room with a tricorder, and starts entering commands.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, someone's trying to initiate an unauthorised transport. It's Neelix.
JANEWAY: Where's he going?
KIM: Looks like he's trying to beam into the nebula.
JANEWAY: Stop him.
(Chakotay leaves.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix. Neelix, respond.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY [OC]: Neelix, I order you to disengage transport.
(Neelix steps onto the platform.)

[Bridge]

KIM: He's found a way to block the abort sequence. Transport's in progress.
JANEWAY: Override it. Get him back.

[Transporter room]

(They do. Chakotay enters.)
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Chakotay. We've blocked his transporter signal.
NEELIX: You can slow me down, but you can't stop me.
CHAKOTAY: What are you trying to do?
NEELIX: I'm going back where I belong.
CHAKOTAY: You belong here, Neelix.
NEELIX: Not anymore. I died in that nebula. You should have left me!
CHAKOTAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: No closer! I've created a site to site transport. No one can override the signal.
CHAKOTAY: You told me you were at peace.
NEELIX: I will be, as soon as I tap this control.
CHAKOTAY: What really happened in your vision quest? What did you see?
NEELIX: My sister, the crew, myself. They all told me the same thing. There's no point in living. And I agree with them.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure those were powerful images, but there are many ways to interpret them. You may be coming face to face with your own fear of death. Or the manifestation of your emotional crisis. Your deepest beliefs have been thrown into doubt. It's only natural the vision quest would reflect that.
NEELIX: Eleven years ago, I saw my world in ruins, my family murdered. All that's kept me going is knowing that one day we'd be together again. That I'd see them again. But it's not true. And I can't live without that hope.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that this can change how you look at things, but it can also lead to an even stronger faith. You don't know. You're not there yet.
WILDMAN [OC]: Ensign Wildman to Neelix.
CHAKOTAY: Answer her!
WILDMAN [OC]: Neelix, please respond.
NEELIX: No.
CHAKOTAY: You're being called back to your life again, Neelix. Don't turn your back on it. We're your family now.
NEELIX: It's not enough.
CHAKOTAY: It is for us. His function on this crew is diverse. That's what Seven of Nine said about you. Even our Borg understands how important you are on this ship. It's not just the duties you perform, it's the way you make people feel when you're around.
NEELIX: That Neelix is gone.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think he is.
(Wildman enters.)
WILDMAN: Why didn't you answer me? I had to have the computer track you down. Naomi thought she saw a monster in the replicator. Neelix, what's going on?
NEELIX: I'm trying to decide some things.
CHAKOTAY: That little girl needs you, Neelix. Monsters in the replicator? Who else on this ship can handle that?
(Neelix thinks about it, then turns off his tricorder and hands it to Chakotay.)
NEELIX: Duty calls.

[Naomi's bedroom]

NEELIX: Goodnight, sir.
NAOMI: He says goodnight.
(Neelix tucks the fluffy toy in bed with Naomi.)
NEELIX: Goodnight, Naomi.
NAOMI: Goodnight.
NEELIX: What's the matter?
NAOMI: Mummy says you were sick.
NEELIX: I was, but I'm okay now.
NAOMI: Did a monster get you?
NEELIX: Yes, I suppose so. But I chased him away. Pleasant dreams.
(Naomi dreams that she and her toy are sitting under the Guiding Tree in the Forest.)


S4 E13
Waking Moments
Stardate: 511471.3
Original Airdate: 14 January 1998

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Ensign Kim. I require your assistance in Jefferies tube thirty seven alpha.
KIM: Well, can it wait? I just got off duty.
SEVEN: It is urgent.

[Tuvok's quarters]

(Tuvok is woken by the comms.)
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Tuvok here.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: You're needed on the bridge, sir.
TUVOK: On my way.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Computer, lights on.
(Nothing happens.)
JANEWAY: Neelix? Is anybody here?

[Shuttlecraft]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Voyager to Lieutenant Paris.
PARIS: Paris here.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: How's it going out there, Tom?
PARIS: One more orbit and I should have all the data we need.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Good work. See you when you get back. Chakotay out.

[Corridor]

(Tuvok is walking along. People are avoiding looking at him.)
TUVOK: Crewman. Ensign.
CREWWOMAN: Sir.
ENSIGN: Hello, sir.

[Jefferies tube]

KIM: It looks to me like you aligned the power couplings perfectly.
SEVEN: I did.
KIM: If you're so sure then why'd you need me to look at them?
SEVEN: I did not.
KIM: Then what's this all about?
SEVEN: I've learned from observing Lieutenants Torres and Paris that humans sometimes require a pretext for being intimate with one another.
KIM: Intimate.
SEVEN: Resistance is futile.
(Seven pushes Kim against the bulkhead and kisses him.)

[Shuttlecraft]

(Something explodes behind Paris' seat.)
PARIS: Paris to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Voyager here.
PARIS: My primary warp manifold just ruptured. I've lost helm control. Auxiliary power is offline. Thruster's won't respond.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Say again, Tom. Your signal's breaking up.
PARIS: My orbit's decaying. I don't think I can hold it.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Repeat that, Tom.
PARIS: I need an emergency beam-out!
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Voyager to Lieutenant Paris. Come in.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Neelix?
(Neelix comes out of the galley.)
NEELIX: What can I do for you, Captain?
JANEWAY: Where is everybody?
NEELIX: Didn't you see them when you came in?
JANEWAY: No.
NEELIX: Take a look. Computer, activate lights.
(The lights illuminate a group of cobwebbed corpses sitting at a long table.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Lieutenant Commander Tuvok reporting for duty.
(The entire senior staff are there. They turn around and their jaws drop, then they start laughing.)
TUVOK: Is something wrong?
PARIS: I think you forgot something, Tuvok.
(Tuvok looks down at his chocolate brown body.)
TUVOK: It appears that in my haste to report to the bridge, I neglected to put on my uniform.
(Tuvok goes into the turbolift, where he sees an alien with a high crest along its skull and a curved tooth sticking out of its chin.)

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: What happened to them?
NEELIX: They died.
JANEWAY: Why?
NEELIX: You didn't get them home in time.
(An alien is there, too.
As Paris struggles with the shuttlecraft, an alien appears outside the window.
When Seven stops kissing Kim, he sees an alien and screams, but doesn't wake up, unlike Tuvok and Janeway and Paris.)

[Paris's quarters]

(Paris is putting on his dressing gown when the doorbell chimes.)
PARIS: Hello.
TORRES: Good morning. Sleep well?
PARIS: Not really. What are you doing here?
TORRES: I just thought I'd stop by and ask you why you didn't meet me for breakfast.
PARIS: Breakfast. What time is it?
TORRES: Seven forty.
PARIS: And we were supposed to meet at oh seven hundred.
TORRES: I was there. Right after I got off the night shift. I waited, and I waited, and I called you on the comm.
PARIS: I, er, I didn't hear you. I was having this wild nightmare. I was out like a light. I'm sorry. I'll get dressed right now.
TORRES: You don't have time. You're due on the bridge at oh eight hundred and I've got to get some sleep.
PARIS: I hate this! We never see each other.
TORRES: I'm off Friday night.
PARIS: Great. Let's go skiing. How about Saint Moritz?
TORRES: We went skiing last time.
PARIS: And you loved it. You're getting really good, you know.
TORRES: I just thought maybe we could run a programme where the wind chill factor wasn't thirty below zero. Like Fiji, or Samoa.
PARIS: There's nothing to do there.
TORRES: And you can be warm while you're not doing it.
PARIS: How about a compromise? Er, spring skiing in Chile? Much warmer.
TORRES: A compromise? How about Tahiti?
PARIS: Tahiti. As long as I can go water-skiing, fine.
TORRES: You're on. (they kiss) Now go get dressed, so you'll still have some time to stop for some coffee.
PARIS: I'll see you Friday night.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Morning, Tom. What'll it be? Scrambled? Sunny side up? Over easy?
PARIS: Just a cup of coffee.
NEELIX: Are you sure? Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, you know.
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: Right.
(Neelix pours the drink. Paris tastes it. It is awful.)
PARIS: Neelix, did you have a rough night or something?
NEELIX: Why do you ask?
PARIS: Because you just poured me a steaming cup of cooking oil.
NEELIX: Actually I did have a little trouble sleeping last night. Nightmares.
PARIS: Oh. Me too.
NEELIX: Must have been those three full moons we passed yesterday. Well, a few sips of my coffee should clear the fuzz out of your brain.
PARIS: Maybe you should pour yourself a cup while you're at it.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We seem to be a little short-handed today.
CHAKOTAY: Tom and Harry are both late. I was going to give them another five minutes but I'll call them now if you'd like.
JANEWAY: That's all right. I'm a little late myself, aren't I.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't going to mention it. Burning the midnight oil?
JANEWAY: Actually, I went to bed early for a change, but I had a nightmare and I could not get back to sleep.
CHAKOTAY: I had a bad dream last night, too.
JANEWAY: You tell me yours and I'll tell you mine.
PARIS: Sorry I'm late, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well?
CHAKOTAY: I was in the forest with my father. We were hunting deer, which was odd because that was something I always refused to do. We cornered the animal. I looked to my father to see if he was going to kill it but he wasn't my father anymore. He was a vicious looking alien.
JANEWAY: There was an alien in my dream, too. And it wasn't from any race I've seen before. He had sharp ridges on his forehead and on the front of his neck.
CHAKOTAY: That's what mine looked like.
PARIS: I don't mean to be eavesdropping but, I had a nightmare last night too, and I'm pretty sure I saw the same guy.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, by any chance did you have a bad dream last night?
TUVOK: I did have a somewhat unsettling dream, yes. It involved a alien with ridges on his face and neck.
JANEWAY: I'd say this sounds like more than a coincidence. Let's get the rest of the senior staff together and come up with some answers. Which reminds me, where's Harry?
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: Computer, locate Ensign Kim.
COMPUTER: Ensign Kim is in his quarters.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Turbolift]

JANEWAY: Deck six. I've got a hunch Harry's dreaming about our new alien friend.
TUVOK: That would be consistent with the experience the rest of us have had.
JANEWAY: Tell me more about your dream. Where exactly did you see the alien?
TUVOK: As a matter of fact it was here in the turbolift.
JANEWAY: What happened?
TUVOK: The alien simply stared at me as if scrutinising my appearance.
JANEWAY: That's what happened in my dream. What did you do?
TUVOK: I returned to my quarters.
JANEWAY: Did the alien follow you?
TUVOK: He did.
JANEWAY: And then?
TUVOK: He watched me.
JANEWAY: Doing what?
TUVOK: Getting dressed.
JANEWAY: Getting dressed?
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose I should ask why you were undressed.
TUVOK: I would prefer that you didn't.

[Outside Kim's quarters]

JANEWAY: Harry? Harry!
TUVOK: Computer, open door one zero five dash two. Security clearance Tuvok zeta nine.

[Kim's quarters]

(Kim is in bed, not moving.)
JANEWAY: Harry? Harry, wake up!

[Sickbay]

(Kim is not the only sound sleeper on board.)
JANEWAY: Are they comatose?
EMH: Not exactly. They all appear to be in a hyper REM state. I've tried every conventional method of waking them, from drugs to direct cortical stimulation, but nothing works.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea what's causing this?
EMH: Scans haven't detected any viral or bacterial agents. No cranial trauma, no neural disorders. They're simply asleep.
JANEWAY: I'd say it's a pretty good bet that this is somehow related to the alien from our dreams.
EMH: Any progress in identifying him?
JANEWAY: Not yet, but I've got everyone working on it. In the meantime, what's your recommendation?.
EMH: Large doses of animazine.
JANEWAY: I thought you said drugs weren't working.
EMH: Not for them. For everybody else. Until I can determine what's happening, I'd suggest the rest of you avoid going to sleep.

[Briefing room]

(The e-fit of their suspect is in progress.)
PARIS: I'd say his ridges were a little more pronounced.
TORRES: Computer, increase facial ridge height by four centimetres.
PARIS: That's closer.
CHAKOTAY: I think his eyes were wider apart.
TORRES: Computer, increase the space between the eyes by three centimetres. Increase skin colour and texture.
JANEWAY: That's him.
CHAKOTAY: Has anybody seen this species before? While you were awake, I mean. Seven?
SEVEN: He doesn't resemble any species assimilated by the Borg.
PARIS: So is he just a figment of our imagination?
TORRES: If he is, we've all been imagining the exact same thing.
TUVOK: One possible explanation is that he's attempting to make telepathic contact.
JANEWAY: He's doing more than making contact. We've got six crewmembers who can't wake up. For all we know it's some sort of attack.
SEVEN: From where? Astrometric scans haven't revealed any ships in this vicinity, or planets capable of sustaining humanoid life.
PARIS: So where do we look?
CHAKOTAY: In our dreams. That's the only place any of us have seen him, right? So if we want to communicate with him, find out what he wants, we'll have to do it on his terms.
TUVOK: How do you propose we do that?
CHAKOTAY: Lucid dreaming.
TORRES: What's that?
CHAKOTAY: It's a technique which allows you to take control of your dream.
PARIS: That happened to me once. I dreamt I was falling and suddenly I realised that I was dreaming, and I could fly, land, do whatever I wanted. I was in complete control of the dream.
CHAKOTAY: What happened to you by accident is something some people can do by design. I've been able to have a lucid dream by using the same technology I use for a vision quest. I may be able to use it to communicate with this alien.
JANEWAY: Maybe so, but how do we know you'd be able to wake up again?
CHAKOTAY: It's kind of like self-hypnosis. Before I go to sleep, I choose a visual cue, something to let me know I'm dreaming. Earth's moon, say. Once I see it, I can wake myself by tapping the back of my hand three times.
TUVOK: Perhaps you are capable of doing this under normal circumstances, but these were hardly conventional dreams we experienced.
CHAKOTAY: I don't see any other way of finding out what our friend here is after, or how we can wake up Harry and the others. Besides, we can't stay awake forever.
JANEWAY: You'll do this in Sickbay, under the Doctor's supervision. The rest of you keep scanning the region. Analyse this ship from stem to stern. Wherever he is, find him.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Normally I consider a good night's sleep an important part of any health regimen, but in this case, I can't recommend it.
CHAKOTAY: I respect your medical opinion, Doctor, but at this point we're out of options.
(The EMH puts a blinkie on Chakotay's forehead.)
EMH: This will regulate your hypothalamus, but in all probability I won't be able to wake you. You'll be on your own.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
JANEWAY: Ready? Pleasant dreams.
(Chakotay activates his akoonah.)
CHAKOTAY: Ah-koo-chee-moya. Far from the sacred places of my grandfathers, far from the bones of my people, I seek to sleep, to meet the one who has visited us in our dreams.
(Chakotay finds himself walking along a corridor carrying a spear with a stone tip. A deer crosses in front of him and runs into the mess hall. Chakotay follows, spear ready to throw.)

[Mess hall]

(Earth's moon is visible through the windows. The other doors open to reveal the deer, which then morphs into the alien. He knocks the spear from Chakotay's hand and gets his hands round his throat. Chakotay manages to push him off and pin his arms.)
CHAKOTAY: I know this is a dream. My dream. I'm in control.
DREAM ALIEN: You're mistaken.
CHAKOTAY: Am I?
DREAM ALIEN: This is more than a dream. It's my reality. And you're no different than the others.
CHAKOTAY: The others?
DREAM ALIEN: The waking species. For centuries, you've come and found us in a state that you call sleep and tried to destroy us. But not anymore. Now we are in control. One by one, you will fall asleep and enter our reality, where it is you who will be destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: We didn't attack you. We didn't even know you existed until we started seeing you in our dreams. Tell me how I can wake my crew and I promise we'll leave.
DREAM ALIEN: As long as you're asleep, you're no threat to us.
CHAKOTAY: I can wake myself anytime I want. And if I do, I'm going to start looking for you in the waking world. Find where you're sleeping. You wouldn't want that.
DREAM ALIEN: Leave our space. Once you're beyond it, your people will awaken.
CHAKOTAY: Just tell me how far we need to go.
DREAM ALIEN: There's a six planet system less than a parsec away. It marks the nearest border of our space.
CHAKOTAY: We can be past it in one day.
DREAM ALIEN: Then wake yourself, and pray you never dream of us again.
(Chakotay taps the back of his hand three times.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Congratulations, Commander. You're awake.
JANEWAY: Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I'm fine.
JANEWAY: The alien, did you see him? And?
CHAKOTAY: Well, it was certainly one of the most interesting away missions I've ever been on. I'll tell you about it on the way to the bridge.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Tuvok, scan for a six planet system. It should be less than a parsec from here.
TUVOK: I have it, Captain, at coordinates one three nine mark four two.
JANEWAY: Tom, lay in a course.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Course laid it. Do you mind if I ask where we're heading?
CHAKOTAY: Past the alien's territory. Once we're clear of it, Harry and the others should wake up.
PARIS: And the rest of us can finally get some sleep.
JANEWAY: One step at a time, Tom.
CHAKOTAY: From what the alien told me it sounds like they have corporeal form but they communicate through their dreams. For them, it's as real as the waking world.
JANEWAY: Extraordinary.
CHAKOTAY: It reminds me of the Australian aborigines. They believed the dream world was no more or less real than the waking world. In fact, their creation mythology says their ancestors actually dreamed the universe into existence.
JANEWAY: That's mythology. This seems to be fact.
CHAKOTAY: I wonder, do they ever wake up? How did they evolve this way?
JANEWAY: We may never know. Sometimes first contact is last contact.
(Later -)
PARIS: We're approaching the border of the alien's space.
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok, inform the Doctor.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Wake up Ensign.
KIM: What's going on?
EMH: You were napping.
KIM: In Sickbay?
EMH: We had to move you here when we couldn't wake you.
KIM: How long?
EMH: Seventeen hours. I take it you experienced nightmares like the rest of the crew?
KIM: Oh, I had nightmares all right.
EMH: Tell me about them.
KIM: Well, I was in the corridor
(Seven enters.)
SEVEN: Captain Janeway asked me to bring you the results of our Astrometric scans. She thought they might be helpful in determining the precise cause of the crew's somnolence.
EMH: Thank you.
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, now that you're awake I require your assistance in Jefferies tube twenty one beta. Is something wrong?
KIM: No. I, er, I'm still feeling a little groggy.
SEVEN: Then I'll wait until you are fully recovered.
EMH: Now then, Ensign, you were telling me about your nightmare.
KIM: You know what, Doc, I'm famished. Haven't eaten in at least seventeen hours, right?
EMH: Very well. Go eat, get some clothes on, and report back in an hour.
KIM: I'll see you later. You too, Seven.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: And the next thing I knew, I was being boiled alive in a pot of my own leola root stew.
TORRES: Talk about a nightmare.
NEELIX: It was perfectly seasoned.
(Kim enters.)
TORRES: Well, if it isn't Sleeping Beauty.
KIM: I do look well-rested, don't I?
NEELIX: Is everyone awake now?
KIM: The Doc checked us all out, He says we're fine.
TORRES: Have a seat. We were just trading dream stories.
NEELIX: Tell us yours.
KIM: Oh, it was nothing very interesting. Just the usual, you know.
TORRES: Who was she, Harry?
KIM: The woman of my dreams. What I'd like to know is what Tuvok dreamt about.
NEELIX: Yes, Commander, tell us. What do Vulcan's dream?
KIM: Aren't you supposed to have horrible nightmares?
TORRES: I wonder what a Vulcan nightmare would be like.
NEELIX: Alone, exiled on a planet where the only form of communication is laughter.
TORRES: Oh, come on, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I won't dignify this inquisition with a response.
(Whumph!)
JANEWAY [OC]: Red alert. All hands to battle stations.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They're coming around for another pass.
JANEWAY: Auxiliary power to the shields. Return fire.
CHAKOTAY: No damage to the alien ship. Our phasers can't penetrate their shields.
JANEWAY: Arm photon torpedoes. We seem to have a knack for provoking strangers these days.
TUVOK: Shields are offline.
JANEWAY: Fire.
(The power goes down.)
CHAKOTAY: I've lost power to the torpedo launchers.
JANEWAY: What's happening?
TUVOK: Power's being drained from all systems.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
DREAM ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Captain. Ensign Kim. Commander Chakotay. I'm glad to see you all up and about.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. We need auxiliary power to the engines now.
DREAM ALIEN [on viewscreen]: I think you'll find that impossible.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna? Report.
TORRES [OC]: There's a localised

[Engineering]

TORRES: Dampening field around the ship, Captain.

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: I can't give you engines, weapons, shields.
CHAKOTAY: Everything you told me was a lie. This was all an elaborate trap to get Voyager here.
DREAM ALIEN [on viewscreen]: It appears you're learning more about my people after all. Prepare to surrender your ship.
TUVOK: Captain. Three more alien vessels are approaching. They are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: You've gone to so much trouble to commandeer this ship, I don't think you're going to destroy it.
DREAM ALIEN [on viewscreen]: I won't need to.
(A troop of aliens appear on the bridge. Tuvok's phaser does not work.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to the crew. We're under attack. Implement defence procedure omega.
DREAM ALIEN: It's no use. We've taken every deck. The ship is ours.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The bridge crew are escorted in.)
CREWWOMAN: Captain?
CHAKOTAY: All the time I thought I was negotiating, they were just setting us up to fly right into their web.
JANEWAY: You couldn't have known it was a trick.
KIM: I don't understand. They exist in dreams and reality.
TUVOK: Apparently, entering our dreams was their way to learn about us. Perhaps to probe our weaknesses.
PARIS: Not to mention lure us into an ambush.
CHAKOTAY: We need to retake the ship.
JANEWAY: That means getting out of this cargo bay.
TORRES: I checked the Jefferies tubes. They're sealed.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can open them manually.
CHAKOTAY: That's not going to be easy. They've got people everywhere.
TUVOK: We'll have to create a diversion.
JANEWAY: Any ideas?
SEVEN: I have one, Captain.
(Seven grabs Kim and throws him to the deck.)
KIM: What the hell are you doing?
SEVEN: Creating a diversion. (loud) Ensign Kim, it is your fault we have been captured.
(She pulls him to his feet and slaps him.)
SEVEN: (sotto) I suggest you fight back.
(Others try to pull them apart, half-heartedly.)
JANEWAY: Tom, try to get into a Jefferies tube. You two work on the power grid. I'll deal with this.
DREAM ALIEN: Stop, stop.
JANEWAY: What's going on here? These are my people, I'll handle them. Ensign, that's enough. Move. (Chakotay and Torres open a panel and start work. Then Chakotay sees the Moon in the screen.)
TORRES: What's wrong?
CHAKOTAY: I'm still asleep.
TORRES: What are you talking about.
(Aliens grab Chakotay's arms.)
TORRES: Chakotay!
(He manages the three taps.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: Commander Chakotay, you're awake.
CHAKOTAY: Am I? Are you sure?
EMH: Of course you are.
(Chakotay goes to the consoles.)
EMH: What are you looking for?
CHAKOTAY: The Moon.
EMH: What?
CHAKOTAY: I don't see it.
(He taps the back of his hand.)
JANEWAY: Where's the captain?
EMH: Asleep, along with the rest of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: All of them?
EMH: Except me. No rest for the never weary.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
EMH: As soon as you entered your lucid dream, they all began falling asleep one by one. I've been trying every method I can think of to revive them, but nothing works. It's been thirty nine hours.
CHAKOTAY: I've been asleep for almost two days?
EMH: If I can't wake them soon, I'm going to have to start feeding them intravenously.
CHAKOTAY: They let me think I was awake but I was still dreaming.
EMH: You weren't the only one. Look at this.
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
EMH: A neurogenic field created by heightened electrical activity in the brain. It's been occurring in all the sleeping crew members. And that's not all. This is Ensign Kim's brain wave pattern, indicating that he's dreaming in a hyper REM state. This is Crewman Foster's pattern.
CHAKOTAY: They're identical.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres, Captain Janeway, Commander Tuvok. I don't know what it means.
CHAKOTAY: I think I do. Not only are they dreaming, they're all having the same dream. It wasn't just my dream, it was a communal dream.
EMH: Everyone's REM patterns are identical. They're experiencing the same images, each from his or her own point of view.
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I saw the rest of the crew, interacted with them. We were all working together to fight off an alien attack.
EMH: Which wasn't real.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, we're under attack all right.
EMH: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe this is the way these aliens fight their enemies. They exist somewhere in our reality as physical beings, but they must be asleep, unable to defend themselves against what they call waking species. We'll never defeat them in their dream reality, but if we can find them, find where they're sleeping, we'll have the advantage.
EMH: But we've been scanning for lifeforms since this started and we haven't found anything.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we've been looking in the wrong place. I'm betting a species that spends its time sleeping isn't going to be hanging around where conventional scans can locate them.
EMH: So how do we find them?
CHAKOTAY: This neurogenic field you mentioned. Anyone in a hyper REM state would be producing one.
EMH: In theory, yes. So if we scan for other neurogenic fields it might lead us to the sleeping aliens.
CHAKOTAY: If you need me, I'll be on the bridge.

[Bridge]

(Everyone else is sleeping at their stations.)
EMH: Time for a little energy boost, Commander. We don't want you drifting back to sleep. Sorry about the mess, but this is what happens when my repeated requests for a larger Sickbay fall on deaf ears. What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Scanners have detected a neurogenic field emanating from beneath the surface of a planet less than a light year from here. Excuse me, Tom, but I've got to change our course.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Sitting by the Borg alcoves, whispering.)
NEELIX: Still dreaming? How is that possible?
TORRES: I don't know, but that's what Chakotay said right before he vanished.
JANEWAY: That doesn't make any sense. He was wide awake, right here with us.
TORRES: He said something about still being asleep and then he started tapping the back of his hand like he said he would to wake up from his lucid dream. And then he disappeared. The question is, where did he go?
KIM: The aliens must have transported him somewhere.
TUVOK: Or perhaps he did wake up.
TORRES: Tuvok?
TUVOK: It's possible he was dreaming all of this.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. If Chakotay was dreaming and he woke up, what are we doing here?
TUVOK: Perhaps we're dreaming as well.
TORRES: Now I'm lost.
NEELIX: You're not the only one.
TUVOK: Consider then, that we all experienced nightmares about an alien whose people apparently live out their lives in a dream state. Perhaps we're in that state at this very moment.
KIM: That's ridiculous. We're not asleep.
JANEWAY: Wait.
TUVOK: When you dream, you're rarely aware that you're sleeping.
JANEWAY: I can understand how we can mistake dreaming for reality, but that doesn't explain how we're all interacting with one another.
NEELIX: Maybe we're not.
TORRES: Not what?
NEELIX: Interacting with one another. Maybe this is all one person's dream, for example mine, and none of you are really here.
TORRES: Trust me, Neelix. I wish I weren't, but I'm here.
SEVEN: Collective unconsciousness.
JANEWAY: Seven, come here.
SEVEN: The Borg share a collective consciousness. These aliens may have somehow inducted a state of collective unconsciousness.
TORRES: You mean we're all sharing the same dream?
TUVOK: It is possible.
JANEWAY: This is all fascinating speculation, but unless we have proof to the contrary we have to treat this like an invasion.
PARIS: I managed to open a Jefferies tube hatch.
JANEWAY: Good work. Neelix, Seven, Kim, do what you can to distract the guards. We're going to find a way to retake the ship.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Looks like a complete power drain.
TORRES: Their dampening field has shut down the warp core.
TUVOK: Which begs the question of what they intend to do with an unpowered ship.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, grab some phaser rifles from the weapons locker. Something tells me that when we try to disable the dampening field, we're going to get the aliens attention.
TORRES: It looks like they're using harmonic inversion technology. If I can isolate the containment frequency, I may be able to get main power back online.
(The warp core powers up.)
JANEWAY: That was easy.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in sixty seconds.
JANEWAY: Maybe a little too easy.
TORRES: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Can you eject the core?
TORRES: I'm trying. It's not working.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in fifty seconds.
TORRES: We've got to get out of here. I'm trying to put a containment field around Engineering.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in forty seconds.
TORRES: Got it! Let's move!
JANEWAY: I don't understand why you couldn't eject the core.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Something's not right.
TUVOK: Captain, we must hurry.
JANEWAY: I'm going back in there.
TORRES: You'll be killed!
JANEWAY: I think I'm on to something. You two go!
TUVOK: Captain!
JANEWAY: That's an order!
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in ten seconds. Nine. Eight. Seven.

[Corridor]

COMPUTER: Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One.
(Boom! The doors to main Engineering open.)
JANEWAY: Either I've become impervious to antimatter explosions, or we're still dreaming.
TORRES: A warp core explosion should have destroyed the ship.
JANEWAY: If I were awake, or if any of this were real, which it obviously isn't. Things just weren't adding up. Chakotay's disappearance. The warp core failing to eject. And as Chakotay said, lucid dreaming is about taking control, so I took a chance.
TUVOK: Surely there must have been a less extreme method of testing your assumptions. As Captain, you shouldn't be taking chances with your life.
JANEWAY: I'm touched by your concern, Tuvok.
TORRES: Now that we know this is a dream, what do we do?
TUVOK: I suggest we find a way to regain consciousness.

[Bridge]

(The EMH and Janeway enter.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain, how did you wake yourself?
JANEWAY: The same way you did.
CHAKOTAY: The others?
JANEWAY: They should all be starting to wake up.
EMH: Rise and shine, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: We need to get as far away from that planet as possible.
JANEWAY: Agreed.
CHAKOTAY: I'll make the necessary course correction.
JANEWAY: What is it?
(The Moon is big on the viewscreen.)
CHAKOTAY: This isn't real.
JANEWAY: Of course it is.
(Chakotay taps the back of his hand.)
JANEWAY: See?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: He's paranoid, disoriented. I suspect much of the crew will suffer similar symptoms when they awake. Try to relax, Commander. I'm going to sedate you.
CHAKOTAY: No. I need to wake, not sleep!
EMH: I'm here to help you.
CHAKOTAY: No!
(The EMH injects Chakotay.)
EMH: It's all right, Commander. You're awake again.
(The planet is on the viewscreen.)
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
EMH: You dozed off.
CHAKOTAY: I couldn't wake myself like I did before.
EMH: Our proximity to the neurogenic field is making it more difficult to stay conscious.
CHAKOTAY: I need to get down there and find a way to neutralise it.
EMH: Not so fast. This is a highly potent animazine derivative. If you feel yourself falling asleep again, you must use it. And Commander, I suggest we keep an open comm. line. I may need to provide you with a verbal splash of cold water every now and then.

[Corridor]

(Janeway tries tapping the back of her hand.)
JANEWAY: It's not working.
TUVOK: It's safe to assume that Chakotay and the Doctor are making every effort to wake us from our sleep.
JANEWAY: We have to let the rest of the crew know what's happening. That as long as they know they're in a dream, they can't be harmed.
TUVOK: And if the aliens try to stop us?
JANEWAY: Then we turn this dream world of theirs into a nightmare.
(Janeway takes Tuvok's phaser rifle.)

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Okay, Doctor, I'm in.
EMH [OC]: Acknowledged, Commander.
(Chakotay follows the tricorder signal around a corner to where an alien is lying on a slab. To where thousands of aliens are lying on slabs.)

[Corridor]

(Two aliens have weapons drawn.)
JANEWAY: Stand aside.
(A third alien appears.)
DREAM ALIEN: Your weapons are useless against us.
JANEWAY: You're not fooling anyone. We know this is a dream.
DREAM ALIEN: You're confused.
JANEWAY: Actually, I'm finally seeing things clearly.
DREAM ALIEN: Shoot them.
(The first two aliens fire. No effect.)
JANEWAY: Now, stand aside.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: All of you, listen closely. What we have to do is stay in control of the dream. If we can do that, the aliens shouldn't be able to hurt us.
DREAM ALIEN: You sound very sure of yourself, Captain.
JANEWAY: Why shouldn't I be?
DREAM ALIEN: Have you thought about what's happening to your bodies in the waking world? How long do you think they'll survive without nourishment, without physical activity? Your bodies are withering away as we speak. You can't stop it.
JANEWAY: Don't be so sure.

[Cavern]

(Chakotay has found a device.)
CHAKOTAY: It's some kind of transmitter. It looks like they use it to amplify the

[Doctor's office]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Neurogenic field.
EMH: Can you turn it off?

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: I tried knocking it out with my phaser, but there's some kind of forcefield.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Commander?

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Sorry, I'm having trouble concentrating.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Time for your medicine.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Doctor. This animazine, it's pretty powerful.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Yes. And I suggest you take it immediately.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: These aliens, they look pretty frail.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: That's fascinating, Commander. Now please, inject yourself.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: They probably wouldn't have the same tolerance for stimulants that we do.
EMH [OC]: What are you getting at?
CHAKOTAY: The animazine might be capable of waking up one of these aliens.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Commander, I'd be happy to discuss comparative pharmacology with you after you administer your injection.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Actually, I think I'm going to give it to one of my sleepy friends here.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: What would that accomplish?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: If I can wake him up

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: I might be able to get him to deactivate this generator.
EMH [OC]: There's not enough

[Doctor's Office]

EMH: Animazine for two doses. If you fall asleep again, there's no way I can revive you.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Doctor, I want you to go to the bridge.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Commander!
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'm giving you an order!

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Go to the bridge and target my comm. signal with a photon torpedo.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: You're delirious. You're asking me to incinerate you.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Not just me. These aliens and their transmitter, too. But only if you don't hear from me 

[Doctor's office]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: In five minutes. Understood?
EMH: Commander.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Understood?

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Aye, sir.

[Cavern]

(Chakotay injects the nearest alien, and the one nearest to Tuvok in the cargo bay vanishes.)
CHAKOTAY: Tell me how to deactivate this transmitter, or I start shooting.

[Cargo Bay two]

DREAM ALIEN: What happened?
JANEWAY: Looks like he woke up.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: I'll give you five seconds. Four, three, two
(Chakotay falls asleep.)

[Cargo Bay two]

(Chakotay appears.)
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
DREAM ALIEN: Who's going to help you now, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: I found the cavern and your people. I'm there right now in the waking world. And it's all going to be destroyed in less than two minutes, unless you deactivate that transmitter.
DREAM ALIEN: If you are there, you'll be killed, too. I think you're lying.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, believe me, if I don't contact my ship you and I are both going to die in our sleep.

Chief Medical Officer's log, Stardate 51471.3. With the neurogenic field neutralised I've been successful in reviving the entire crew. Unfortunately, the experience has produced a troubling side effect for many of them. Acute insomnia.

[Mess hall]

(Chakotay gets out of bed and goes for a walk.)
CHAKOTAY: Computer, lights on.
(Neelix pops up from behind the counter.)
NEELIX: Sorry, Commander. I didn't mean to frighten you.
CHAKOTAY: You're not starting breakfast this early, are you?
NEELIX: Just rearranging the supply cabinets. I couldn't sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Neither could I.
NEELIX: How about a soothing cup of tea?
CHAKOTAY: Sounds good.
NEELIX: I know it's silly, but every time I'm about to doze off, I'm terrified that I won't be able to wake again.
(Paris and Kim enter.)
CHAKOTAY: You too?
PARIS: We just finished a little late night hoverball on the holodeck.
KIM: Three games in a row. We were hoping it would wear us out.
NEELIX: You know, I could learn to enjoy these late night get-togethers.
PARIS: Speak for yourself. I would kill for a good night's sleep.
(Tuvok enters, yawning.)
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, I think it's time for breakfast.


S4 E14
Message in a Bottle
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 21 January 1998

[Corridor]
TORRES: Cold, patronising, arrogant.
CHAKOTAY: I know she can be difficult.
TORRES: Difficult? She's impossible.
CHAKOTAY: I'm getting tired of playing referee every time you two have a disagreement. If you have a problem, talk to her yourself.
TORRES: Does the word irrelevant mean anything to you? She won't listen. She may look human, and she may sound human, but she's all Borg.
CHAKOTAY: Part of the problem is your attitude. You've never tried to accept Seven as part of the crew.
TORRES: And with good reason. Guess what she did this morning. She took an isolinear processor out of Engineering without asking, and when I went to Astrometrics to get it back she had locked the door, like that lab is her own private domain.
CHAKOTAY: What do you want me to do? Throw her in the brig for the rest of the trip home?
TORRES: I've heard worse ideas.
SEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay here.
SEVEN [OC]: Report to the Astrometrics lab at once.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
TORRES: Did you hear that? She's giving orders now. I'm telling you, Chakotay. If she gets in my way again, I am not responsible for what happens.
CHAKOTAY: You're a senior officer on this ship. Act like one. Find a way to deal with her.
(Chakotay catches up with Janeway.)
CHAKOTAY: Astrometrics?
JANEWAY: I've been summoned. Any guesses what this is about?
CHAKOTAY: None.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: Your call sounded urgent.
SEVEN: It was. I've been working to increase the range of the astrometric sensors, and I have detected something that you should find of particular interest.
JANEWAY: A ship. What's special about it?
SEVEN: I've analysed the warp signature. It's a Starfleet vessel. The ship we're seeing is in the Alpha Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: You couldn't have extended the astrometric sensors that far.
SEVEN: No, but I increased the range far enough to detect a large network of relay stations. They're alien in origin, abandoned but still functioning. By establishing a sensor link with the nearest station I'm getting readings from the entire network. The Starfleet ship is within range of one of the farthest sensors near the outer edges of the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: It must be on a deep space mission.
SEVEN: I've extrapolated it's course.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like we'll be able to keep track of it very long.
SEVEN: The ship should move out of range in forty one minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Can we use the network to transmit a message?
SEVEN: Yes, but we'll have to remodulate our signal to match the network's interlink frequency.
JANEWAY: We don't have much time. Get it done, Chakotay.
(Chakotay leaves. Later, as Voyager hangs still in space -)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Ensign Kim.
KIM [OC]: Kim here.
SEVEN: I'm sending you the interlink frequencies.

[Bridge]

KIM: Got it.
JANEWAY: Seven, how much longer do we have?
SEVEN [OC]: Sixteen minutes.
TORRES: That should do it. The subspace transceiver is at two hundred percent output and online. We're ready.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KIM: Open.
JANEWAY: Starfleet vessel, this is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the starship Voyager. We are in the Delta Quadrant, at coordinates one eight, mark two oh five, mark four seven. Remodulate your signal to match our interlink frequency.
TUVOK: We're receiving a transmission.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
JANEWAY [OC]: Starship Voyager. We're in the
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven. What went wrong?

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I don't understand. My readings show that the station picked up our message and relayed it across the entire network.

[Bridge]

TORRES: We should try widening the subspace bandwidth and sending the message again.
JANEWAY: Do it.
KIM: Transmitting.
SEVEN [OC]: The signal is being relayed. No sign of interference.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Wait. It's being deflected back again.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway, starship Voyager, the Delta Quadrant.
SEVEN [OC]: I have a possible explanation, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: As our carrier wave moves along the network, it may be degrading.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Can we try a different kind of signal? Something stronger?
TORRES: A holographic datastream might work. It wouldn't degrade so quickly.
CHAKOTAY: It would take too long to reconfigure the message, unless
JANEWAY: The Doctor.
TORRES: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Bring him to Astrometrics and I'll meet you there. We don't have much time.

[Medical lab]

(Torres enters and gets his mobile emitter.)
TORRES: Doctor, you have to come with me, quickly.
EMH: Would you mind at least telling me what all this is about?
(He is downloaded into the emitter.)

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: When I requested more away missions, this isn't exactly what I had in mind.
JANEWAY: You may be our only chance to communicate with that ship.
TORRES: When you get there, you'll be downloaded into their EMH system. I'm sending an initiation code along with your programme so you'll be activated immediately.
SEVEN: We have less than ninety seconds before that ship moves out of range.
EMH: How am I supposed to get back here?
JANEWAY: When you've completed your mission, instruct them to move within range of the sensor network. With any luck, they can send you back the same way you came.
EMH: Luck?
JANEWAY: I won't lie to you, doctor. A lot of things could go wrong. We're relying on an alien technology to send you across thousands of light years.
EMH: So there's a chance my programme could be lost.
JANEWAY: Yes. I'm asking you to take that chance.
SEVEN: Thirty five seconds.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: Far be it from me to turn down an opportunity to become a hero. I'm ready.
TORRES: Torres to bridge.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Standing by.
TORRES: I'm downloading him into the transceiver array.
SEVEN: Ten seconds.
JANEWAY: Good luck, Doctor.
EMH: There's that word again.
(The EMH is decompiled and transmitted.)

[Prometheus Sickbay]

(The EMH is recompiled in a small but very neat Sickbay on board NX-59650.)
EMH: Hello? Is anyone here? Computer, identify this ship.
COMPUTER: This is the Federation starship Prometheus.
EMH: Are we in the Alpha Quadrant?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: Ah. Sickbay to bridge.
(No answer.)
EMH: All right. this is Sickbay calling any crew member. Please respond. Computer, is the comm. system malfunctioning?
COMPUTER: Negative.
EMH: Then why can't I reach anyone?
COMPUTER: Access to the communications system has been restricted.
EMH: Restricted? But this is important. Isn't there some sort of emergency comm. channel available?
(He sees a scorch mark on the wall, then a burnt woman lying on the deck. She is dead, but not the man nearby. The EMH gives him a hypo.)
EMH: Try to lie still. You have severe phaser burns. What happened here?
OFFICER: Romulans. They've taken over the ship.
(He dies.)

[Prometheus Bridge]

(The Romulan woman at the helm speaks to her male commander.)
NEVALA: Commander, there's a vessel approaching on an intercept course. It's Starfleet.
REKAR: I told you to mask our warp trail.
NEVALA: I've been trying. These new systems are unfamiliar. We should have left some of the crew alive.
REKAR: You'd be surprised how stubborn humans can be.
NEVALA: The Starfleet ship is closing.
REKAR: Raise shields and prepare to fire phasers.

[Prometheus Sickbay]

EMH: Computer, how may Romulans are on board?
COMPUTER: Twenty seven.
EMH: Are there any Starfleet crewmembers?
COMPUTER: None alive.
EMH: Computer, display the design schematic of this ship and list general specifications.
COMPUTER: USS Prometheus. Experimental prototype designed for deep space tactical assignments. Primary battle systems include regenerative shielding, ablative hull armour, multivector assault mode.
EMH: Multivector assault mode? Describe.
COMPUTER: Access to tactical data requires level four clearance.
EMH: What can you show me at my clearance level?
(Whumph!)

[Prometheus Bridge]

NEVALA: Shields are holding.
REKAR: Engage the multivector assault mode.
NEVALA: That system has never been tested.
REKAR: Then we'll test it now. I gave you an order and I expect you to follow it. Multivector assault mode. Now!
NEVALA: Yes, Commander.
COMPUTER: Initiating decoupling sequence.

[Prometheus Sickbay]

COMPUTER: Autoseparation in ten seconds. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six.
EMH: Computer, what's happening? Computer?
COMPUTER: Five. Four. Three.

[Prometheus Bridge]

COMPUTER: Two. One. Separation sequence in progress.
(The Prometheus' saucer section divides into three, horizontally.)
NEVALA: We're in attack formation. Each section is armed and responding to our command.
(A hit makes a console explode, injuring the Romulan there.)
REKAR: Attack pattern beta four seven.
COMPUTER: Specify target.
REKAR: The Starfleet vessel, bearing one six two mark seven.
COMPUTER: Pattern and target confirmed.
(The three sections fire, destroying their attacker's propulsion.)
REKAR: I think we should consider that a successful test. Begin the reintegration sequence, then get me a full damage report.
NEVALA: Yes, Commander.
(She leaves the helm to see to the injured man.)
NEVALA: He's hurt.
REKAR: Take him to the medical bay.

[Prometheus Sickbay]

(Whumph!)
COMPUTER: Reintegration sequence complete.
EMH: Computer, is there any way for me to gain access to the communication system to send a message to another ship?
COMPUTER: Negative. Communications access requires level four clearance or above.
(The doors open and the EMH ducks down behind the console. Nevala enters with the injured Romulan and he stands up again.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
NEVALA: Who activated you?
EMH: You did, automatically, when you entered Sickbay.
NEVALA: Can you treat him?
EMH: Of course, that's my function. Third degree burns, hairline jaw fracture, and a ruptured blood vessel in his brain. I'll have to operate.
NEVALA: You're a Starfleet programme. Why should I trust you?
EMH: I'm a doctor. Whether my patient is human, or Romulan, I'll do everything in my power to save him. You're welcome to assist me if you like. Or maybe you'd just prefer to supervise. (The EMH brings a tray of instruments and makes a start.)
NEVALA: Report to me when you're finished.
EMH: Mmm hmm.
(Nevala leaves. The EMH leaves his patient.)
EMH: Computer, can I access this ship's EMH programme or do I need some kind of clearance for that, too?
COMPUTER: Access to that programme is unrestricted.
EMH: Activate it.
(The Prometheus' EMH appears. He is younger and with a full head of hair.)
EMH2: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. What the hell are you doing in my Sickbay? I've been programmed to identify every member of this crew. You aren't one of them.
EMH: That's because I'm
EMH2: State your rank and security clearance.
EMH: I don't have clearance. I'm an Emergency Medical Hologram. I've been sent here to
EMH2: Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes. You're the mark one EMH. The inferior programme.
EMH: Inferior?
EMH2: Beady eyes, terrible bedside manner. I recognise you. But you're not part of this database. What are you doing here?
EMH: If you'd disengage your vocal subroutines for one second, I'd explain. I was transmitted onto this ship by a Starfleet vessel over sixty thousand light years from here.
EMH2: Sixty thousand light years? We don't have ships that far out.
EMH: It's the starship Voyager. We were taken into the Delta Quadrant four years ago by an alien force. What are you doing?
EMH2: Activating intruder alert.
EMH: That's the last thing you want to do.
EMH2: Security.
(The EMH puts his hand over his colleague's mouth.)
EMH: Listen to me. This vessel has been taken over by Romulans. The crew is dead. You and I are the only Starfleet officers on board. Do you understand? 
EMH2: (muffled) I understand.
(The EMH removes his hand.)
EMH2: Computer, deactivate EMH.
EMH: Computer, activate EMH.
EMH2: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Now what?
EMH: I need your help.
EMH2: Starfleet security protocol twenty eight subsection D. In the event of hostile alien takeover, the EMH is to deactivate and wait for rescue.
EMH: I'm afraid you don't have that luxury. There are two ships at stake here, yours and mine. Now, I need to know more about what's happening. Is the Federation at war with the Romulans?
EMH2: No. The Romulans haven't gotten involved in our fight with the Dominion.
EMH: The who?
EMH2: Long story.
EMH: In any case, we need to take control of this situation.
EMH2: I'm a doctor, not a commando.
EMH: It's time you became a little of both.
EMH2: You don't understand. The Prometheus is an experimental prototype, and so am I. I, I, I haven't even been field tested yet. I'm not designed for this kind of duty.
EMH: Try to calm down. You'll do fine as long as I'm here. I have plenty of expertise in this area. Now, first things first. We've got a patient. You treat his burns, I'll repair the bone fracture.
EMH2: You're not serious.
EMH: I certainly am.
EMH2: He's the enemy.
EMH: He needs our help. I assume you're familiar with the Hippocratic Oath?
EMH2: You see? You see what's happening? The Romulans are using you.
EMH: Hmm.
EMH2: Hmm what?
EMH: Your holomatrix is unstable. It may explain your erratic behaviour.
EMH2: I told you, I'm a work in progress! I was only installed six weeks ago.
EMH: Stable or not, I need you. And so does he.
EMH2: He'll live. I say we leave him and deactivate ourselves.
EMH: No! You're free to do as you please. Go cower inside the data processor if you'd like. I'll work alone.
EMH2: We're medical holograms. What can we expect to do against a ship full of Romulans?
EMH: I'm not sure. Not yet. But I've faced my share of challenges. Alien invasions, macro-viral infestations. I've crossed Borg space, travelled through time.
EMH2: Have you run a self-diagnostic lately? The EMH mark one is designed to function in Sickbay only.
EMH: Voyager lost it's Chief Medical Officer four years ago. I've been active ever since.
EMH2: Four years? No wonder you're delusional. Your programme's degrading after being active for so long.
EMH: I assure you I am in perfect health. I was saving Voyager from annihilation when you were only a gleam in your programmer's eye. Now, are you going to help me take back this ship or not?
EMH2: Get me the thrombic modulator.
(The EMH hesitates over the various devices on the instrument tray, then picks up one like a small flying saucer.)
EMH2: It's the cone shaped device. Hand it to me, please. Medical science has made a few advances while you've been off in the Delta Quadrant, did you say?
EMH: That's right.
EMH2: We don't use scalpels or leeches anymore. I suggest you let me handle the medical side of things. As for retaking the ship, I'll leave that in your experienced hands.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: No word. Our link to the sensor net is stable. Seven of Nine is standing watch in Astrometrics. I tried to relieve her but she doesn't want to leave her post. She says she doesn't need to regenerate for the next few days. What are you doing?
JANEWAY: Letters home. I started them a year ago. One to my family, one to Mark. I'm making a few updates, just in case. I know. It's premature.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. It's probably a mistake for us to get our hopes up at all. We've been through this before. All right, I'll admit it. I just finished a letter to my cousin in Ohio.

[Sickbay]

(Neelix stands between two ill-looking crew. Paris enters.)
PARIS: The doctor is in.
NEELIX: Lieutenant, thank God you're here.
PARIS: What seems to be the trouble?
NEELIX: Well, one minute they were eating lunch, and the next they started perspiring and complaining of chest pain.
PARIS: Hmm. No wonder. Acute functional dyspepsia.
NEELIX: What's that?
PARIS: Heartburn.
NEELIX: Oh, I'm terribly sorry. I don't know how this could have happened.
PARIS: I'll replicate some antacid.
NEELIX: We'll have you feeling better in no time.

[Medical lab]

NEELIX: They're going to be all right, aren't they?
PARIS: It's heartburn, Neelix, not the Terrillian plague. What did you feed them, anyway?
NEELIX: Rodeo Red's Red Hot Rootin' Tootin' Chili.
PARIS: Where did you find that recipe?
NEELIX: I've been brushing up on classic American cuisine. When we get back to Earth, I want to make sure I have marketable job skills.
PARIS: Don't you think you're jumping the gun a little bit?
NEELIX: The Doctor is going to make it back, and he's going to bring a plan for Starfleet to rescue us. I have complete confidence in him.
PARIS: I hope you're right. If not, I'm going to spend the rest of this trip treating upset stomachs.
NEELIX: Oh, believe me, this is never going to happen again. It's just a matter of perfecting the recipe. Next time I'll use a few less jalapenos.

[Prometheus Sickbay]

EMH: I've accessed the navigational logs. We're at warp nine point nine, heading straight for Romulan space.
EMH2: This vessel was designed to go faster than anything in the fleet, so we'll never be rescued.
EMH: We've got to find a way to turn this ship around.
EMH2: How? Waltz on to the bridge and take over the helm?
EMH: Refresh my memory. Which of us has the terrible bedside manner?
EMH2: You're not my patient.
EMH: My first bit of good news. We have to incapacitate the Romulans somehow. What kind of anaesthetics do you have handy?
EMH2: Only the best. Axonol, neurozine, anaesthazine.
EMH: Neurozine will do nicely. It can be distributed in gaseous form. Show me a schematic of the ship's ventilation system. Please.
EMH2: All primary systems have been rerouted to the bridge, including environmental control.
EMH: It looks like there are holo-emitters on every deck.
EMH2: There are. Unlike you, I'm not condemned to a Sickbay.
EMH: Get three canisters of neurozine. As a matter of record, I have free reign on Voyager, and I can even leave the ship as well.
EMH2: Leave your ship? How?
EMH: My mobile emitter. A little piece of twenty ninth century technology we obtained.
EMH2: Really?
EMH: I'm as close to a sentient life form as any hologram could hope to be. I socialise with the crew, fraternise with aliens. I've even had sexual relations.
EMH2: Sex? How's that possible? We're not equipped
EMH: Let's just say, I made an addition to my programme.
EMH2: Before you leave, maybe you could download those subroutines into my database.
EMH: We'll see. It looks like the only place I can access environmental control is from the Ops console on the bridge.
EMH2: The bridge is swarming with Romulans.
EMH: That's the first thing you learn in the real world. Think on your feet.
EMH2: Well, good luck then. Computer, deactivate
EMH: Not so fast. You're going to Jefferies tube seventeen. The moment I unlock the controls you release the gas into the ventilation system.
EMH2: Jefferies tube seventeen? That's five decks up. What if I run into Romulans?
EMH: Improvise. Your journey begins here.
(Clutching the canisters, the EMH2 sits down and tries to get his legs up behind him into the tube. The EMH takes the canisters.)
EMH: Traditionally, one crawls in headfirst.
EMH2: Thanks.
(The EMH2 does so, then returns for the gas. The EMH closes and locks the hatch after him.)

[Prometheus Bridge]

(The EMH enters.)
NEVALA: There you are, Doctor. Have you completed the surgery?
EMH: Yes. Your friend is recovering nicely. However, I found something disturbing in his blood work. It seems that he's been exposed to a nasty strain of the Torothka virus. And if he was, you may all have been. I've come to run some scans.
REKAR: No one here is sick.
EMH: Not yet. I understand the stomach cramps are unbearable, although some say the rash is worse.
REKAR: Conduct your scans. How far are we from our border?
NEVALA: At our present velocity, forty minutes.
REKAR: Alter our heading to one one eight mark two six.
NEVALA: That will take us off our course to Romulus.
REKAR: There's been a change of plans. We're giving this ship to someone who'll make full use of it's potential. The Tal'Shiar. I've made arrangements to rendezvous with their fleet within the hour.
NEVALA: But Commander, they're expecting us to be
REKAR: You have your orders. What are you doing?
EMH: I'm checking the biofilters for evidence of the virus.
(Rekar looks at the tricorder.)
REKAR: You haven't taken any readings at all.
(The EMH taps the tricorder.)
EMH: Hmm.

[Sickbay]

PARIS: Next time, order the chicken salad. (The crewman leaves as Kim enters.)
PARIS: Oh, am I glad to see you.
KIM: What's the emergency?
PARIS: Take a look around you, Harry. What do you see?
KIM: Sickbay?
PARIS: Exactly.
KIM: So?
PARIS: So, it's not the helm of a starship, is it?
KIM: Did you accidentally inject yourself with some kind of psychotropic agent?
PARIS: I am a pilot, Harry, not a doctor.
KIM: This is a temporary assignment, just till the Doc gets back.
PARIS: What if he doesn't get back?
KIM: He'll be back.
PARIS: I need your help, Harry. Rescue me from medical exile.
KIM: How?
PARIS: You're an expert in holotechnology. You have got to design a new doctor.
KIM: You really are delirious. It took the greatest holoengineers in Starfleet years to develop the EMH. I can't just design a new doctor.
PARIS: Think of it as a challenge, Harry. A chance to make history and save your best friend all at the same time.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres. You are recalibrating the relay interface.
TORRES: That's right.
SEVEN: State your reasons for making these modifications.
TORRES: State your reasons, please. It's not what you say, Seven. It's how you say it.
SEVEN: I don't understand.
TORRES: You may have noticed that some of the crew seem a bit on edge when you're around.
SEVEN: I was Borg. I elicit apprehension.
TORRES: No, that's not what I mean. We're not afraid that you're going to assimilate us. We're just not used to. You just. You're rude.
SEVEN: I am rude?
TORRES: Yes. Yes. You order people around, you do things without permission, and whether you realise it or not you come off as a little insulting. You don't even say please or thank you. Look, I don't expect you to change overnight but, try to remember that we are not just a bunch of drones.
SEVEN: Your attempt to recalibrate the interface is ill-advised. The risk of disrupting our link is too great.
TORRES: In your opinion. That is exactly what I'm talking about. You haven't even been listening to me. I don't know why I try to talk to you if you don't even. Are we losing the link?
SEVEN: No. We're receiving a transmission from the relay station.
TORRES: The Doctor?
(An alien in armour and facemask.)
HIROGEN [on screen]: What are you?
TORRES: I'm Lieutenant Torres of the Starship Voyager.
HIROGEN [on screen]: You are using our technology.
TORRES: You mean the sensor network? We thought that it was abandoned.
HIROGEN [on screen]: It belongs to the Hirogen. Terminate your link.
TORRES: No, no, wait, please. We just
(Transmission ends.)
SEVEN: The link has been severed.

[Prometheus Ready room]

REKAR: What else have you done to this ship? I will deactivate you unless you start answering my questions.
EMH: If I answer them, you'll very likely deactivate me anyway, so I fail to see the point.
REKAR: You are nothing but a computer generated projection. I find it hard to believe you're capable of taking these actions independently.
EMH: How flattering.
REKAR: Tell me, who is operating your programme? Is it someone on this ship? A Starfleet crew member we missed, or one of my own men?
EMH: Paranoia is a way of life for you, isn't it?
(Nevala enters.)
NEVALA: The computer log shows the ship received an optronic datastream transmission approximately six hours ago. It contained a holographic subroutine.
REKAR: Who sent it?
NEVALA: Unknown. The data pattern had a Starfleet signature.
REKAR: So, Starfleet has managed to sneak a holographic operative aboard. Very clever.
NEVALA: Were you only sent to spy on us, or does your mission include sabotage?
EMH: The datastream you detected came from an alien sensor network. It transferred me from a Starfleet ship in the Delta Quadrant.
NEVALA: The Delta Quadrant? That's absurd.
REKAR: This is pointless.
EMH: I couldn't agree more.
NEVALA: Maybe there's a better way to retrieve information from a hologram. I suggest a complete algorithm extraction. We can analyse his subroutines one by one.
REKAR: Proceed.
EMH: Isn't there some kind of convention regarding the treatment of prisoners?
(Gas pours out of the ventilation system. Rekar and Nevala gasp, then collapse. EMH2 appears.)
EMH2: Did it work? (to Nevala.) Sorry to interrupt.
EMH: Did you anaesthetise the entire ship?
EMH2: I did. I did.
EMH: How did you manage to release the neurozine? I never opened the ventilation system.
EMH2: Trapped in the Jefferies tube, alone, nowhere to run, his smug comrade captured by Romulans, EMH mark two had to improvise. Inspiration. He accessed the main computer and simulated a ship wide biohazard, making the computer think there was a microbiotic contamination on all decks.
EMH: And the ventilation system opened automatically.
EMH2: Presto. He then crawled back out of the tube, accessed the holoemitters, transferred here, excused the Romulan, saw the dumbfounded look on his comrade's face
EMH: The end. You know, you really should keep a personal log. Why bore others needlessly? We have to get to the bridge. This ship needs a crew, and we're it.
EMH2: Oh, trouble. The Prometheus is a prototype. Top secret. Only four people in all of Starfleet trained to operate it. I hope your myriad adventures included piloting lessons

[Prometheus Bridge]

(The EMH2 transfers them both to the bridge.)
EMH2: Because there's nothing in my programme that will help us fly this thing.
EMH: I've had my share of piloting experience. Actually, only two lessons, and they were in a shuttlecraft on the holodeck. But I showed great intuition. Where's the helm?
EMH2: You'd better intuit it fast. We're only about eight minutes from the Romulan border.
EMH: Ah, there it is.
(He pushes the sleeping Romulan onto the deck and sits in his seat. EMH2 looks over his shoulder.)
EMH2: This is all very complicated.
EMH: Stop breathing down my neck.
EMH2: My breathing is merely a simulation.
EMH: So is my neck. Stop it anyway.
EMH2: Is this a thruster control?
EMH: Don't touch that, we don't know what it does. It could be the self-destruct.
EMH2: You look worried.
EMH: I'm just concentrating.
EMH2: You don't know what you're doing, do you. This is not a shuttle and we are not on a holodeck.
EMH: Shush.
EMH2: Mister I can leave my ship. The Voice of Experience.
EMH: Let me think. Ah, here it is. This looks like the nacelle power control.
EMH2: So? So?
EMH: There's a little trick I saw Mister Paris do once. If I can generate a slight overload to the nacelle coils, it'll collapse the warp field.
(Whumph!)
EMH2: What happened?
EMH: I did it. We've stopped. Ah, All we have to do now is find a way to send Starfleet a distress signal and
(The console beeps.)
EMH2: Beep beep beep? Beep beep beep? I've never heard that one before.
EMH: Oh, no.
EMH2: What?
EMH: I'm not sure, but I think whatever I did initiated a warp core overload.
EMH2: You mean the ship's going to explode? You've got to stop it.
(The EMH touches controls and the beeping stops.)
EMH: No problem.
(A new set of beeps starts up.)
EMH2: What now?
EMH: Unless I'm mistaken, and for once I sincerely hope I am, there are three Romulan warbirds on an intercept course.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: We're boosting the signal gain as high as it'll go. I think we can cut through the alien's jamming signal.
HIROGEN [on screen]: I warned you.
JANEWAY: I apologise for our intrusion. Allow me to explain.
HIROGEN: No explanations.
JANEWAY: Your relay network gave us the unique opportunity to communicate with our people. They are very far away and we're expecting a message back from them.
HIROGEN [on screen]: All messages will be intercepted.
TORRES: He's trying to jam the link again.
JANEWAY: There must be some room for negotiation. Isn't there anything you might accept in exchange for
(They see energy hitting the Hirogen. The transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: What happened?
SEVEN: I generated a feedback surge along our sensor link.
TORRES: You killed him?
SEVEN: It was a mild shock. He will recover.
JANEWAY: And when he does?
SEVEN: He wasn't responding to diplomacy.
JANEWAY: Is the sensor link stable?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep watching for the Doctor. Let me know if our friend gives us any more trouble.
TORRES: Mild shock? Not bad.
SEVEN: Thank you.

[Sickbay]

KIM: There. I've finished inputting the Doctor's physical characteristics.
PARIS: Let's have a look.
KIM: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Hologram Replacement Programme.
PARIS: Do you think we should give him a little more hair?
KIM: What do you say we try to get him working first, then we can worry about personal grooming.
PARIS: Right. You're the boss. What do we do next?
KIM: I've downloaded the ship's entire medical library and compressed it into a single data file. It's got all the classics, from Gray's Anatomy to Leonard McCoy's Comparative Alien Physiology.
PARIS: And once we transfer all the data into stoneface's matrix, we'll have ourselves a brand new medical expert.
KIM: That's what I'm hoping.
PARIS: Harry, you are a genius.
KIM: Don't congratulate me yet. This is only the first step.
PARIS: Yeah, but it's a step in the right direction.
KIM: I'm telling you, this probably isn't going to work.
PARIS: What happened to all that youthful optimism?
KIM: Being a doctor is a lot more than knowing facts. We still have to create analytical subroutines to help him diagnose patients, tactile protocols so he can perform surgery, not to mention a personality profile.
PARIS: Oh, you know, I've been thinking about that. Maybe we should make this one a little more pleasant than the old doc.
KIM: All right, ready to transfer the data. Computer, transfer medical library master file to Emergency Medical Replacement Hologram.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
EMH-R: Chapter one, the animal cell. All the tissues of the body originate from a microscopic structure, the fertilised ovum, which consists of a soft jelly-like material enclosed in a membrane and containing a ves
PARIS: What's he doing?
KIM: I think he's reciting Gray's Anatomy.
EMH-R: This may be regarded as a complete cell.
PARIS: Can you stop him?
KIM: I'm trying.
EMH-R: Similar to it in nature but differing in external form. Paragraph.
PARIS: Listen, this is all very fascinating.
EMH-R: In a higher organism a cell is
PARIS: But would you please be quiet for a minute!
KIM: He doesn't have speech recognition protocols yet.
PARIS: Well give him some, would you?
EMH-R: Material similar to that in the ovum and usually called cytoplasm, and a small spherical
(The hologram starts to glitch.)
PARIS: What's happening?
KIM: It's an overload. His matrix can't accommodate all the data.
EMH-R: Contain no nuclei  
(The hologram disappears.)
PARIS: What are you doing?
KIM: I'm downloading Gray's Anatomy chapter by chapter.
PARIS: I thought you said it was too much data for his holomatrix to handle.
KIM: It's not for the EMH. It's for you.

[Prometheus Bridge]

EMH2: The Romulan vessels are closing in. Two minutes to intercept. Get us our of here.
EMH: I can't get this ship moving. Try rerouting power to the impulse engines
EMH2: Reroute power, reroute power. Here we go, I think I've found the relay controls. Hey, I'm finally getting the hang of this.
(The EMH fritzes.)
EMH: What's happening?
EMH2: Sorry, I must have transferred power from the holoemitters.
EMH: Well, be more careful. If I'm deactivated, this ship'll never get back to Starfleet.
EMH2: Okay, I'm taking power from life support. We don't need that. Try the engines now.
EMH: Nothing. Why isn't this working?
EMH2: Thirty seconds to intercept. They're right on top of us.
EMH: Hold it. I see the problem. The thrust initiator is offline. Stand by.
EMH2: Fifteen seconds. They're charging weapons.
EMH: See if you can access the shields.
(The EMH2 has vanished.)
EMH: I said, I said shields!
(The EMH2 pops back up from below the console.)
EMH2: Already done. Shields up.
ALMAK [OC]: This is the Warbird T'Met calling the Prometheus. Commander Rekar, respond. Commander.
EMH: This is the Prometheus.
ALMAK [OC]: Activate your viewscreen.
EMH: Our viewscreen is not operational. We've had some trouble with Starfleet commandos.
ALMAK [OC]: Where's Rekar?
EMH: In the medical bay. He's suffered minor injuries.
ALMAK [OC]: Identify yourself.
EMH2: You first.
EMH: You first.
ALMAK [OC]: Repeat your last statement. I don't understand.
EMH: State your identity.
ALMAK [OC]: This is Sub-Commander Almak. Lower your shields and prepare to be boarded.
EMH: They're already down. Maybe there's something wrong with your sensor readings. You'd better not try to transport until we can be sure it's safe.
ALMAK [OC]: Lower your shields immediately or I'll open fire.
EMH: Immediately? Yes. Prometheus out.
(Whumph!)
EMH2: Direct hit. Shields down to twenty percent.
EMH: Three more ships are approaching.
EMH2: We're doomed.
EMH: No. They're Starfleet.
EMH2: What are they doing?
EMH: Firing on us!
EMH2: They must think Romulans are on board.
EMH: They're right!
(A fleet of Defiants bear down, weapons blazing.)
EMH2: Prometheus to any Starfleet vessel. Respond. Prometheus
EMH: It's no use, they can't hear us. The Romulans have scrambled the comm. frequencies.
EMH2: Doctor, something just went offline.
EMH: Specifically?
EMH2: The secondary gyrodyne relays and the propulsion field intermatrix have depolarised.
EMH: In English.
EMH2 I'm just reading what it says here.
EMH: I'll try to stabilise the ship. Transfer auxiliary power to the manoeuvring thrusters.
EMH2: Transferring auxiliary power now.
(The ship stops shaking.)
EMH: Good work, mark two.
EMH2: Thanks.
EMH: You'd better get to tactical. We're going to have to defend ourselves.
EMH2: Tactical. Right.
EMH: What are you waiting for? Shoot. Shoot.
EMH2: There are so many controls.
EMH: Find the one that says fire and push it.
EMH2: It's not working. It says here the phasers are offline.
EMH: Well then, fire a torpedo.
(He does.)
EMH: You hit the wrong ship.
EMH2: It wasn't my fault.
EMH: Whose fault was it, the torpedo's? You're supposed to tell it what to do.
(Consoles explode.)
EMH: Navigational control is offline.
EMH2: Everything's offline. Weapons, shields.
EMH: It gets worse. There are two Warbirds coming right at us.
EMH2: My brilliant existence cut short. No time to explore the universe, no time to smell the roses. No time for sex.
(He prods at controls.)
COMPUTER: Initiating decoupling sequence.
EMH2: What's that? What have I done now?
COMPUTER: Autoseparation in ten seconds.
EMH: Autoseparation? I think the Romulans did this before.
EMH2: How do we turn it off?
EMH: I don't think we can.
COMPUTER: Five. Four. Three. Two.
EMH: If I recall correctly, this next part gets a little bumpy.
COMPUTER: Separation sequence in progress.
EMH: Hold on.
COMPUTER: Specify attack pattern.
EMH: Attack pattern alpha?
COMPUTER: Specify target.
EMH + EMH2: Romulans!
(One Warbird goes KaBOOM!)
EMH2: Bulls-eye! The Warbirds are in retreat. Doctor, we've done it. Two holograms, alone. Romulans on one side, Starfleet on the other. Alarms beeping everywhere.
EMH: EMH mark two, newborn but filled with courage.
EMH2: EMH mark one, armed with years of experience.
EMH: Together they emerged triumphant.
EMH2: The end. (beep!) Or not.
(Two armed Starfleet officers beam aboard.)
EMH: Welcome to the Prometheus, gentlemen. It's about time.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I'm receiving a transmission through the sensor network. Origin, the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: Does it contain a holographic subroutine?
SEVEN: Yes.
TORRES: Transfer it to Sickbay. Torres to bridge. Captain, I think he's back.

[Sickbay]

(Janeway, Chakotay and Tuvok enter. Janeway helps the EMH to stabilise and solidify.)
JANEWAY: Doctor, report.
EMH: I, I did it.
JANEWAY: You completed the mission?
EMH: Yes. Once the Romulans were out of the way.
TUVOK: Romulans?
EMH: They'd taken over the Prometheus, he ship I was on. But I managed to turn the tables on them with help from a fellow EMH.
CHAKOTAY: You got through to Starfleet?
EMH: I spoke directly with Headquarters. Apparently, Voyager was declared officially lost fourteen months ago. I set the record straight. I told them everything that's happened to this crew. They said they would contact your families to tell them the news and promised that they won't stop until they've found a way to get Voyager back home. And they asked me to relay a message. They wanted you to know you're no longer alone.
JANEWAY: Sixty thousand light years seems a little closer today.


S4 E15
Hunters
Stardate: 51501.4
Original Airdate: 11 February 1998

[Bridge]
(A very garbled message is being sent across the galaxy.)
VOICE [OC]: USS Voyager. If you are receiving this message, please study it carefully. We have information
JANEWAY: What happened?
KIM: I'm not sure. The transmission just stopped.
JANEWAY: Locate the source. See if you can get it back.
KIM: It looks like. Captain, the transmission was sent along the same network of alien relay stations we used to send the Doctor to the Alpha Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet Command must be using them just like we did.
JANEWAY: Harry, can you clear the interference from that message?
KIM: Yes ma'am.
PARIS: They said they wouldn't stop until they found a way to get us home.
TUVOK: Nonetheless, we can't assume they've been able to devise a plan this quickly.
JANEWAY: They're communicating with us. That's a big step.
KIM: Okay, I've reprocessed everything we've received. I've cleared out most of the interference. Here it is.
VOICE [OC] This is Starfleet Command to the USS Voyager. If you are receiving this message, please study it carefully. We have information that
KIM: That's all we got. It looks like the bulk of the transmission is lodged in one of the relay stations.
JANEWAY: Can you tell which one?
Kim: It's about three point eight light years from us on a heading of two seven four mark one three.
JANEWAY: Set a course, Tom.
CHAKOTAY: Last time we used one of those stations the people who build it weren't too happy.
JANEWAY: We'll deal with that if we have to, but I'm not going to lose this opportunity. We're going to find out what the rest of that message says.

[Hirogen ship]

(Skulls of various lifeforms adorn the wall.)
VOICE [OC] This is Starfleet Command to the USS Voyager. If you are receiving this message please study it carefully.
ALPHA: Who sent this message?
BETA: Unknown. It comes from across the galaxy.
ALPHA: Locate the ship receiving it.
BETA: It's on a course to one of our modules.
ALPHA: Intercept.

[Bridge]

KIM: Maybe they've figured out a way to get us home.
PARIS: How can they get us home from sixty thousand light years away?
KIM: Who knows what technological advances Starfleet has come up with since we've been gone. They might have developed a whole new way of travelling through space.
TUVOK: Since it was technology that brought us to the Delta Quadrant in the first place, it's a reasonable assumption. Technology could bring us back again.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet found a stable wormhole to the Gamma Quadrant. Maybe they've discovered one that leads here.
JANEWAY: This kind of speculation can be intriguing, but be careful about setting yourselves up to be disappointed.
KIM: I'm just happy my folks know I'm alive.
JANEWAY: I imagine there were quite a few celebrations when people got the news.
CHAKOTAY: Probably. But I can see where it might make things more difficult for some. I'd guess a lot of people had given up on us, done their mourning, gone on with their lives, found some kind of resolution. Now they get word that we're alive, but so far away that we might as well be dead.
KIM: Some people might feel that way, but not my mom and dad.
JANEWAY: At the very least, we know the relay stations extend almost all the way to the Alpha Quadrant. If Starfleet has found a way to use them to transmit messages, we'll be able to stay in constant contact with people at home. That has to be comforting.
KIM: I'm sure it is, but I think it's more comforting to think that Starfleet is going to get us home. If no one objects, that's what I'm going to do.

[Astrometrics lab]

EMH: You were supposed to report to Sickbay this morning for your weekly check-up. Where have you been?
SEVEN: Here, doing my job.
EMH: And just what is this pressing task?
SEVEN: I'm trying to retrieve more of the message transmitted from Starfleet Command.
EMH: Your devotion to duty is admirable, but you must remember that your implants have to be monitored regularly.
SEVEN: I'm fine.
EMH: No, you're not. I'm detecting reduced levels of erythrocytes in your blood. How long has it been since you regenerated?
SEVEN: Fifty eight hours
EMH: Well, that explains it. We've discussed this before, Seven. You must regenerate in your alcove for at least three hours a day.
SEVEN: I have gone as long as two hundred hours without regenerating
EMH: That was when you were a Borg. You seem to forget you're a good deal more human now.
SEVEN: I assure you, I have not forgotten. Another one.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: I have retrieved another word of text. That makes six.
EMH: Six words in fifty eight hours? Wouldn't it be more efficient just to wait until we arrive at the relay station?
SEVEN: This message is important to the captain
EMH: I'm aware of that. In fact, if it weren't for me, this transmission wouldn't have been possible in the first place. I was the one who risked my matrix in order to go to the Alpha Quadrant. If we ever get home, I expect I'll become quite the hero. Emergency Medical Hologram instrumental in the return of Voyager crew. Has a nice ring to it, don't you think?
SEVEN: On the other hand, it is entirely possible that your programme will be deleted and you'll be upgraded to conform to the most recent standards.
EMH: Unlikely. I've accomplished things no EMH ever has. In fact, most likely I'll become an object of intense study and discussion. Possibly even veneration. What's that?
(Voyager is shaking.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We're encountering some kind of gravimetric forces.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: Looks like it's coming from the relay station we're heading for.
JANEWAY: That station is still two light years away. How could it project a gravimetric field this far?
CHAKOTAY: It would have to have an incredibly powerful energy source.
KIM: I've compensated for the disturbance. We should be all right. At least until we get closer.
TUVOK: I'm detecting a ship, Captain. Eight hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: It's adrift, no propulsion systems, no weapons, no life support.
KIM: I'm picking up one male humanoid aboard. He's dead.
JANEWAY: As soon as we're close enough, beam the body to Sickbay. I want to know how he died.

[Sickbay]

(A sack of skin is on the biobed.)
JANEWAY: What's happened to him?
EMH: He appears to have suffered a complete osteotomy. He's been gutted. Apparently some kind of surgical procedure was used to remove the entire skeleton, as well as the musculature, the ligaments and tendons, and the internal organs.
JANEWAY: How long ago did this happen?
EMH: It's difficult to say. Somewhere between a week and a month.
SEVEN: I've seen this before. The Borg encountered a small ship of species five one seven four. They were also destroyed in this fashion.
EMH: Did you ever determine who did it, and why?
SEVEN: No. It was irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Return the body to his ship. His people may be able to retrieve him.
EMH: Very well.
JANEWAY: When we get closer to the station, we can use the data processors in Astrometrics to download the message.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.

Captain's log, stardate 51501.4. After two days at high warp, we're close enough to the relay station to see it on long range visual sensors.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Not exactly what I expected. It looks ancient.
KIM: Radiometric decay rations indicate it's at least one hundred thousand years old.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for lifeforms.
KIM: Negative, sir. Looks like there's nobody home.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, that's good news.
(The shaking starts.)
CHAKOTAY: Here we go again.
TUVOK: The gravimetric field.
KIM: Commander, if my sensors are right, that station is using a quantum singularity as a power source.
PARIS: A black hole?
KIM: It's a tiny one, probably about a centimetre in diameter, but it's putting out almost four terawatts of energy.
CHAKOTAY: That someone's managed to contain a singularity and construct a space station around it and tap it's power. That's fascinating.
PARIS: Can we take the ship any closer?
KIM: I wouldn't recommend it. Voyager would take a beating from the gravimetric eddies.
CHAKOTAY: All right, Tom, back us off.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: We're as close as we're going to be able to get.
JANEWAY [OC]: Okay.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: We'll see if we can download the message from here.
SEVEN: The datastream degraded during transmission. Elements have been dislocated, rearranged. It's going to require some time to decompress the message and rearrange it in the proper sequence.
JANEWAY: Don't worry about the sequence. Get it out in bits and pieces if you have to. We can put it together later.
SEVEN: I've accessed a block of data. I'm downloading the text.
JANEWAY: How much we miss you. We talk about you often. Wondering about your day. Sounds awfully personal from Starfleet Command. The children have grown so much you wouldn't. These are letters. These are letters from home.
(Later, Janeway hands some PADDs to Neelix.)
JANEWAY: You'll be the official mail carrier, Neelix. We'll get you the letters as quickly as we can download them.
NEELIX: A task I'm happy to perform, Captain. I can tell you, I've never seen the crew this excited.
JANEWAY: This is the closest they've come to their families in almost four years.
NEELIX: I promise to treat these like gemstones.
JANEWAY: By the time you've delivered them, we should have more.
SEVEN: Captain. I've discovered something odd. There seems to be more here than just letters.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
SEVEN: There's a latent datastream buried under the message. It's heavily encrypted.
JANEWAY: Encrypted?
SEVEN: It appears to contain a large block of text and what may be maps
JANEWAY: Can you retrieve any of it?
SEVEN: Not immediately. When more of the letters have been cleared out, I should be able to access the coded message.
JANEWAY: Well, I might just hope that it contains a plan for bringing us back to the Alpha Quadrant. I'm curious, Seven. What do you think about all this? Messages, the possibility of getting home?
SEVEN: It lacks any emotional resonance for me. I've never even been to Earth.
JANEWAY: You realise you may have family there?
SEVEN: That had not occurred to me.
JANEWAY: You could have cousins, grandparents. There might be more emotional resonance than you think.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: Ahem. I am happy to announce that I have the first letters from home.
KIM: Who are they for, Neelix?
NEELIX: Ah, this one is addressed to Commander Chakotay. Who's it from, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: An old friend. The person who recruited me into the Maquis. Maybe I'll read this in private. Tom, you have the bridge.
KIM: Neelix, wait a minute. Aren't there any more?
NEELIX: No. No more for the bridge crew. Not yet. Be patient.

[Tuvok's office]

TUVOK: Come in.
NEELIX: Good news, Mister Vulcan. This one's for you.
TUVOK: Thank you, Mister Neelix. You can put it on the desk. Was there something more?
NEELIX: Aren't you going to read it?
TUVOK: Of course.
NEELIX: I, I mean, aren't you going to read it now?
TUVOK: I'm finishing my weekly tactical review. When it's completed, I'll read the message.
NEELIX: You're going to wait until you finish the tactical review?
TUVOK: Do you have any reason to believe the content of the message will change during that time?
NEELIX: That's not the point. It's a letter from your family. Don't you want to know what it says?
TUVOK: I fully intend to find out what it says.
NEELIX: It has some important news.
TUVOK: You mean you've read it?
NEELIX: Well, only the first few lines. When I was seeing who it was addressed to, I, I couldn't help it. Would you like me to read it to you?
TUVOK: Very well.
NEELIX: My husband, we have been given the news that you are alive. Your children and I have asked the priests at the temple of Aymonk to say prayers for your safe return. That's very sweet.
TUVOK: Amonak.
NEELIX: Pardon?
TUVOK: The temple of Amonak. One of the most sacred on Vulcan.
NEELIX: Amonak. Of course. The most significant news is the fact that your first son, Sek, has gone through the Pon Farr. He mated and has become a father. You are now the grandfather of a healthy female who they have named T'Meni, after your mother. You're a grandfather. Isn't that wonderful? Congratulations. What should we call you now? Grandpa? Gramps?
TUVOK: I think Commander Tuvok will suffice. Thank you, Mister Neelix. I'll read the rest to myself.
NEELIX: Just so long as you read it right away. No procrastinating. Who knows what else might be in that letter?
(Neelix leaves. Tuvok returns to his tactical review for a few moments, then picks the letter up and sits by the window to read it.)

[Bridge]

(Janeway enters with a PADD.)
KIM: Is that a letter to you, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. Seven just downloaded it. I'll be in my ready room.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
(Janeway's letter reads - Kathryn Janeway from Mark Johnson. Dear Kathryn, I was just remembering about the birth of Mollie's puppies and how long ago that seemed. You should see how big they are now and how well they get along with my new kitten. Things at work are still crazy; the production schedule never seems to let up...however I do need to relate some rather difficult news...since you've been gone, it's been so difficult for me to assume... Janeway starts out smiling, but then it fades.)

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: Have you gotten a letter yet?
TORRES: Don't expect one.
CHAKOTAY: Do you remember Sveta?
TORRES: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: I got one from her.
TORRES: Why would she be writing you? Chakotay, what is it?
CHAKOTAY: Something terrible has happened. I read that letter for an hour before I could accept it. Now I have to tell everyone else and I'm not sure how to do it. It's over, B'Elanna. There are no more Maquis.
(For details, click the link to read DS9 Blaze of Glory)
TORRES: What are you saying? There are thousands of us.
CHAKOTAY: All wiped out. It seems the Cardassians have an ally, a species from the Gamma Quadrant who supplied them with ships and weapons.
TORRES: K'Tarra? Roberto? Everyone except us is dead?
CHAKOTAY: Just about. Sveta and a few lucky ones are in prison.
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Don't! Don't try to console me. I don't want to be comforted. Those were our friends, good people willing to put their lives on the line for something they believed in and now you're telling me that they are gone, that they are slaughtered.
CHAKOTAY: Those are the risks we all took. We all knew where it could lead.
TORRES: It's not right and you know it. I will make someone pay, I swear I will. If we ever get back.

[Mess hall]

KIM: Tom, I heard there are at least thirty more letters that have been downloaded.
PARIS: Oh yeah?
KIM: Neelix is supposed to on his way here now.
PARIS: What do you suppose this is, anyway?
KIM: What was is?
PARIS: This mystery dish. It tastes vaguely like chicken, but it has the consistency of corn husks.
KIM: Is that all you can think about? What you're eating?
PARIS: Well, I don't like guessing at what I put in my stomach
KIM: Tom, we're getting letters from home. Doesn't that mean anything to you?
PARIS: Not particularly.
KIM: I don't believe you.
PARIS: You know, it's really not that bad.
KIM: Here he comes.
NEELIX: Good news. Seven has been able to download some more letters. This one is for Susan Nicoletti. Is she here?
NICOLETTI: Oh! Yeah.
NEELIX: Fitzpatrick?
FITZPATRICK: Right here.
NICOLETTI: Thank you.
NEELIX: Kyoto? Golwat? (The Bolian woman.) Ashmore? Dorado?
DORADO: I'm here.
KIM: There's not going to be one for me
PARIS: He's not done yet. Hang on.
NEELIX: And finally, Parsons. I'm sorry if your name hasn't come up, but Seven is still working.
KIM: Neelix. I thought you had over thirty letters.
NEELIX: Thirty? Where did you hear that?
KIM: That's what was going around.
NEELIX: Don't pay any attention to rumours.
(Neelix leaves.)
KIM: Right.
PARIS: Aren't you going to eat your lunch?
KIM: I'm not hungry
PARIS: You shouldn't get your hopes up, Harry. No hopes, no disappointments.
KIM: I'm not you.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: Captain, I'm beginning to have trouble accessing the datastream. The longer it remains lodged in the relay station, the more it degrades.
JANEWAY: If we could get near enough we could try to stabilise the containment field. But I can't risk taking the ship in any closer.
SEVEN: A shuttle could withstand the gravimetric eddies more easily than Voyager. I'd like to try it.
JANEWAY: I'd want Commander Tuvok to go with you.
SEVEN: For what reason?
JANEWAY: It isn't my custom to send an away team of one.
SEVEN: As you wish.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Hi.
KIM: Hi. I thought Seven was working in here.
TORRES: She's gone with Tuvok to shore up the station's confinement field. I've taken over for her. Disappointed?
KIM: Of course not. Would you stop that? I've told you, there's nothing between us.
TORRES: I know there's nothing between you. It's purely a one way attraction.
KIM: Very funny.
TORRES: Harry, you might as well wear a big sign that says, I'm in love. Everyone sees it.
KIM: Look, I'll admit that for a while. Well, she's a very attractive woman, but I've gotten over that.
TORRES: Okay.
KIM: Fine. Believe whatever you want.
TORRES: If you didn't come down here to see her, why did you?
KIM: I wanted to know if I'd gotten a letter yet.
TORRES: Sorry. I haven't seen anything so far.
KIM: Do you think there's going to be one for everybody?
TORRES: I'm sure that Starfleet contacted the families and friends of everyone on the ship. They know how important that would be.
KIM: I hope so.
TORRES: Harry, you'll get one. Try to be patient.

[Shuttlecraft]

SEVEN: Commander, am I correct in assuming that Vulcans are incapable of lying?
TUVOK: We are capable of telling lies. However, I have never found it prudent or necessary to do so.
SEVEN: You have never lied?
TUVOK: Only under orders from a superior officer.
SEVEN: Then I must ask you something. Is it the captain's custom to send at least two people on an away mission?
TUVOK: It's not only her custom, it's recommended Starfleet protocol.
SEVEN: I see.
TUVOK: Is there a purpose to your question?
SEVEN: I am wondering if the captain still doesn't trust me. If she feels I require supervision.
TUVOK: I am not certain how the captain regards you, but her decision to have me accompany you on this mission shouldn't be taken as evidence of any particular attitude.
SEVEN: I believe we are close enough to emit a polaron pulse.
TUVOK: Bring the main deflector online.
SEVEN: Ready.
TUVOK: The variance in the containment field is now at point two nine.
SEVEN: That should prevent further degradation of the signal.
TUVOK: Let me ask you a question, Seven. Is the captain's opinion important to you?
SEVEN: My understanding of the hierarchy on Voyager is that the captain's opinion is important to every member of the crew.
(Whumph!)
SEVEN: What's happened?
TUVOK: We have just been scanned by a sub-neucleonic beam of some kind.
SEVEN: The navigational sensors have been disrupted.
TUVOK: We must get Voyager to send out a directional beacon to guide us back. Tuvok to Voyager. Voyager, please respond.
SEVEN: Commander, we've lost other systems as well. We have no communications, no warp engines and no weapons.
TUVOK: I suspect this was done intentionally by the ship that's approaching rapidly off out port stern.
(It is Hirogen, and they start firing.)
SEVEN: They're at fifty thousand kilometres and closing.
TUVOK: Our shields are losing integrity.
SEVEN: I'll try to get at least one phaser array back online. Commander, one more hit and we'll be susceptible to a hull breach.
TUVOK: That ship is larger than ours. If we lure it closer to the station, it will be far more vulnerable to the gravitational eddies than we are. A tractor beam. We are being pulled toward the ship.
SEVEN: I'll try to disrupt it. Unsuccessful.
TUVOK: Launching a distress beacon.
(A beam from the Hirogen ship knocks them out.)

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Torres to the bridge.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TORRES: Captain, could Lieutenant Paris come

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: Down here? I think I've got something he'd want to see.
JANEWAY: He's on his way.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: It's a letter for you. It's coming through right now.
PARIS: For me?
TORRES: It's right here.
PARIS: Who's it from?
TORRES: I can't tell yet.
PARIS: Maybe it's from the rehab colony, telling me I've violated probation.
TORRES: Why are you acting like this?
PARIS: I just want to know who the letter's from, okay?
TORRES: You should know in a minute.
PARIS: I'll be on the bridge.
TORRES: What, you're not going to wait?
PARIS: I'm on duty.
TORRES: Voyager is hanging in space. There's not a lot to do at the helm.
PARIS: I just thought that I should be at my post.
TORRES: You may be able to fool someone else with that ploy, but you're talking to me, Tom.
PARIS: Just download the letter, okay?
TORRES: A little more has come in. It's from Starfleet. From an Admiral Owen. Do you know him?
PARIS: Admiral Owen Paris. It's my father.
TORRES: That's wonderful.
PARIS: Yeah. Maybe. I don't know exactly why, but the more everybody gets excited about these letters from home, the more I don't want any part of it. Maybe because what I have on Voyager is so much better than anything I ever had back there. I just don't want the reminder.
TORRES: You're not the same person you were four years ago. What makes you think he is?
PARIS: No, you don't know him.
TORRES: At least give him a chance. He's obviously reaching out.
PARIS: When he forms an opinion about something, nothing can change his mind.
TORRES: Fine. Excuse me if I can't feel terribly sorry for you. I learned this morning that a lot of my friends are dead. And I've gone from being so angry that I wanted to kill someone to crying for an hour. And now I'm just trying to, to accept it and move on.
PARIS: B'Elanna, that's awful. I am so sorry. And here I am going on about something that doesn't even matter anymore.
(Paris hugs Torres.)
TORRES: No, I'm sorry. It obviously does. You care what he thinks about you.
PARIS: Yeah. Yeah, I guess I still do.
TORRES: I'll let you know when I get the whole letter.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like Tuvok and Seven pulled it off. The containment field has stabilised quite a bit. B'Elanna says she'd downloading the letters much more easily now.
JANEWAY: That's good news.
CHAKOTAY: We don't have the shuttle on sensors yet, but they should be back soon.
JANEWAY: I've learned a few interesting things about that relay station. It's generating as much energy every minute as a typical star puts out in a year.
CHAKOTAY: It's amazing to me is that someone a hundred thousand years ago was harvesting microsingularities.
JANEWAY: If nobody shows up to protest, I'd like to stay here for a while. Try to find the answers to some of these questions. This is the kind of archaeological puzzle that's always fascinated me. Want a cup?
CHAKOTAY: No, thanks. You haven't mentioned your letter. Who was it from?
JANEWAY: It was from Mark, the man I was engaged to. He told me about the litter of puppies my dog had, and how he found homes for them. How devastated he was when Voyager was lost. How he held out hopes we were alive longer than most people did until he realised that he was clinging to a fantasy. So he began living his life again. Meeting people, letting go of the past. About four months ago, he married a woman who works with him. He's very happy.
CHAKOTAY: How do you feel about that?
JANEWAY: Well, I knew he'd eventually move on with his life. But there was such a finality to that letter.
KIM [OC]: Kim to the captain. Can you come to the bridge?

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: We've picked up an automated distress signal from Tuvok's shuttle. Sensors show there's no one on board.

[Hirogen ship]

(Tuvok wakes up on the deck, arms tied securely behind his back. Seven is nearby, also bound.)
TUVOK: Seven. Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Where are we?
TUVOK: I assume we're on the alien ship.
SEVEN: This is most uncomfortable. Have you seen anyone?
TUVOK: No. If we can reach one of those blades perhaps we can cut through these bindings.
(An Hirogen enters.)
ALPHA: You were pathetic prey. Easily taken.
(He pulls Tuvok to his feet, then Seven.)
ALPHA: The hunt was not satisfying. I want information. Why do you violate our property? I could snap your puny neck with one twist. Hardly worth taking. Answer me. Why do you use our modules?
TUVOK: We're trying to retrieve important messages from our home. Return us to our ship and we'll be on our way without trespassing again.
ALPHA: I took you in a fair hunt. I claim the relics of the chase.
(He puts a red mark over Seven's right eye.)
ALPHA: Are the others on your ship able to put up more of a fight than you?
SEVEN: You will find our captain a formidable opponent and our ship heavily armed.
ALPHA: Good. Strong prey makes for a better hunt.
(He marks Tuvok.)
TUVOK: Release us now and you'll be safe. Otherwise we will destroy you.
BETA: Pitiful relics.
ALPHA: They 'are the first of their kind. I will be envied.
BETA: I've located their ship. It's four thousand ketriks from the module.
ALPHA: We'll be there within the hour. Go to stalking mode. Why do you hesitate?
BETA: The rest of the group is on its way.
ALPHA: I wanted to claim this prey for myself.
BETA: We may not be able to take them alone. We need the strength of the others.
ALPHA: I won't share prey with the others. These two must be the only relics. Prepare them.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, it's tricky to scan through the interference, but I think I'm detecting a ship.
JANEWAY: What kind of ship?
KIM: Let me reconfigure the sensor array. It's Hirogen, and Tuvok and Seven are on it.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: On screen.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. You have two of my crew on board.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: Disconnect your link with our module and leave this space.
JANEWAY: Not without my people.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: They are my relics.
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to offer you something for their safe return. Surely we can come to an agreement?
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: If the rest of my group arrives, you will be taken as well. I'm giving you a chance to run.
JANEWAY: We don't run.
KIM: Captain, I've got three more ships on sensors, coming towards us at high warp.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: Don't be foolish. Leave now and save yourselves.
JANEWAY: Give me my people and we'll do just that.
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: They're mine.
JANEWAY: Then get ready for a fight. Red alert.

[Hirogen ship]

ALPHA: Are they prepared?
BETA: Yes. But now is not the time for it. We should wait until the others arrive and take the ship.
ALPHA: I want to make the first kill. You will verify it.
BETA: If there's a battle, we must join it.
ALPHA: The others can wage the battle.
BETA: Perhaps you are more interested in collecting relics. Perhaps your judgment is clouded.
ALPHA: Don't question me again. We do it now.
TUVOK: I suggest you think carefully about your decision. If you kill us, our captain will hunt you down and show no mercy.
ALPHA: I'm not concerned. Lower the harness. A long, coiled intestine. An interesting trophy.
SEVEN: What possible use could you make of my intestines?
ALPHA: Unusual relics are prized. Yours will make me envied by men and pursued by women.
SEVEN: You are a crude species. Only your size makes you formidable.
ALPHA: Your insults are as pitiful as your efforts to escape. This one first. I want the female to witness what will happen to her. Their bone structure makes cutting through the back difficult. This will take time.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here, Captain.
JANEWAY: How much longer?

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: I'm getting out piece by piece. At least another half hour.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: How are you coming?
KIM: The ship has some kind of monotanium armour plating. It's scattering the targeting beam.
CHAKOTAY: The other three ships are closing. They're within six thousand kilometres.
PARIS: Captain, those ships have massive weapons. They've definitely got us outgunned.
JANEWAY: Harry, let me see those ships in relation to the relay station.
KIM: Yes ma'am.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can use that quantum singularity to our advantage.
KIM: How?
JANEWAY: If we can boost the effect of the singularity, increase the gravitational pull, we might be able to stop them.
KIM: The pull would increase if we could weaken the station's containment field. An antithoron burst might do it.
PARIS: If we're not careful we might be pulled in as well.
JANEWAY: Don't worry, we're going to be ready for it. Harry, create a low level warp field around Voyager. Sublight energy level. That should help counteract the gravitational pull.
CHAKOTAY: If the field is too strong, we won't be able to beam Tuvok and Seven aboard.
JANEWAY: Then you'll have to find the right balance, won't you, Harry?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: On my mark, direct a level eight antithoron burst towards the station. Have thrusters ready for full reverse, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Understood.
KIM: I've established a low level warp field, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Antithoron system is online.
PARIS: I'm ready with thrusters.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: It's working.
JANEWAY: Try the transporter lock again, Harry.

[Hirogen ship]

(Alarm are blaring.)
ALPHA: Stabilise the ship.
BETA: I can't. The gravity well is pulling us in.
(Tuvok grabs the blade and slashes the Beta across the throat, then attacks the Alpha. He throws Tuvok into the bulkhead.)
BETA: That vessel is weakening the module's containment field.
ALPHA: Ready weapons. Signal the others to attack/

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Torres to the bridge.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TORRES: The antithoron burst collapsed

[Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: The signal. I've gotten as much of the message as I'm going to get.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Hail those ships.
KIM: Channel open.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway. Agree to retreat, and we'll restore the containment field.
PARIS: Captain, they're firing.
(Things go bang.)
CHAKOTAY: Their weapons are destabilising the containment field.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway. Stop firing. You're putting yourselves in grave danger.
KIM: The field is going. The singularity is about to be exposed.
(The array implodes into a black hole, pulling Hirogen ships into itself.)
CHAKOTAY: Captain, the ship with Tuvok and Seven is still being pulled in.
JANEWAY: Get a tractor beam on it.
KIM: I have Tuvok and Seven targeted, but if we try to transport them now the gravity well could scatter their patterns.
CHAKOTAY: The tractor beam is weakening. We're going to lose them.
JANEWAY: Harry, we have to risk it.
KIM: Activating the transporter.

[Hirogen ship]

ALPHA: Full reverse. Increase power to the engine.
BETA: No response.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Do you have them?
KIM: Not yet. Their patterns are distorting.
JANEWAY: Narrow the annular confinement beam.
CHAKOTAY: Tractor beam's almost gone, Captain. We're losing this tug of war.
JANEWAY: Reroute all secondary power to the tractor emitters.
CHAKOTAY: The tractor beam collapsed. That ship is headed into the black hole.
KIM: I'm realigning the pattern buffer. I've got one more shot at it. I got them. They're in transporter room two.
PARIS: I need more power. We're being pulled in.
JANEWAY: Transfer all available power to the engines.
PARIS: It's not enough.
JANEWAY: Shut down life support.
CHAKOTAY: Structural integrity's failing. The hull is starting to buckle.
PARIS: We're going in.
JANEWAY: Open the antimatter injectors to one hundred twenty percent.
KIM: Captain, that could breach the core.
JANEWAY: So will that black hole. Now just do it.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
(Voyager stops shaking.)
PARIS: We're free.
JANEWAY: Resume course. I'll be in Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]

TORRES: Captain, look at this. The energy released from the singularity created a massive discharge along the relay network. It disabled every one of the stations.
JANEWAY: How much of the message were you able to get?
TORRES: I got most of the encrypted Starfleet text and a few more personal letters.
JANEWAY: How soon can we see what Starfleet had to say?
TORRES: It'll take some time to decode. Harry should probably work on it. If you'll excuse me, I have a few letters to deliver.
JANEWAY: Neelix can do that.
TORRES: No need. Anyway, there's one that I want to do personally.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Good news, Harry. I got this at the last minute.
KIM: It's from my folks. Thanks.
TORRES: I'm sorry, Tom. I wasn't able to download yours in time.
PARIS: Just when I was getting eager to read it.
TORRES: You could assume that he said he loves you, and that he's proud of you.
PARIS: I think I will.

Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine and Commander Tuvok suffered no serious physical damage after their encounter on the alien ship. I've been eager to hear Tuvok's impressions of the species who took them hostage.

[Ready room]

TUVOK: I learned very little about them, but I believe we should consider them extremely dangerous. They seem to lack any moral centre.
JANEWAY: Do you know why the relay network was so important to them?
TUVOK: No. I assume they used it for communications, as we did.
JANEWAY: Well, they won't be using it any more.
TUVOK: They won't be pleased about that, Captain. I doubt we've seen the last of them.  
(Doorbell.)
JANEWAY: Come in.
(Chakotay enters.)
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me. Commander.
(Tuvok leaves.)
CHAKOTAY: Repair teams have inspected the ship from stem to stern. Except for some maintenance that's needed on the warp coils, everything seems fine.
JANEWAY: I suppose so. Want some coffee?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks.
JANEWAY: Cream and sugar, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Two sugars.
JANEWAY: Oh, two sugars?
CHAKOTAY: You know, you drink too much of that stuff.
JANEWAY: Really?
CHAKOTAY: If I'm not mistaken that's your third cup this morning.
JANEWAY: Fourth. And on a day like today, it won't be my last. Coffee - the finest organic suspension ever devised. It's got me through the worst of the last three years. I beat the Borg with it. Oh, I'm sure Voyager will be fine, but I'm worried that the crew might be a different story. I think they were hoping mail call would become a regular part of their day.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix is putting together an impromptu party. He thought it might cheer them up.
JANEWAY: Good idea. When will it be?
CHAKOTAY: As soon as he can get people together.
JANEWAY: Leave it to Neelix to come up with the right idea at the right time.
CHAKOTAY: How are you doing?
JANEWAY: Me? I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: You'd say that if you'd just had your legs torn off by a Traykan Beast. Look what you've been through in the last few days. We finally make a connection with home and then it's ripped away from us. We manage to make another enemy who's going to try and hunt us down and destroy us, and on top of that
JANEWAY: It's all right. You can say it. On top of all that, I got a Dear John letter. It wasn't really a surprise. I guess I didn't really expect him to wait for me considering the circumstances. It made me realise that I was using him as a safety net, you know, as a way to avoid becoming involved with someone else.
CHAKOTAY: You don't have that safety net any more.
JANEWAY: That's right. Then again, my life is far from uneventful here in the Delta Quadrant. It's not like I would have had a chance to pursue a relationship, even if I had realised I was alone.
CHAKOTAY: You're hardly alone, and to my way of thinking, there's still plenty of time.
JANEWAY: Plenty of time.
NEELIX: Neelix to the ready room. The party's about to begin and there are only two people missing.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.
(Chakotay offers Janeway his arm, and they leave together.)


S4 E16
Prey
Stardate: 51652.3
Original Airdate: 18 February 1998

[Hirogen ship]
(For the first time, we see Hirogen without their breathing masks.)
HUNTER: The prey's course has become erratic. I will intercept to kill.
ALPHA: No. Maintain distance. His ship is damaged. He's injured. Let him bleed.
(Does that deep voice sound familiar? It should, because it is Tony Todd.)
HUNTER: This prey is resilient. We will lose the moment.
ALPHA: The way a creature behaves when it is wounded is the key to it's destruction. Maintain distance.
HUNTER: Direct hit. Our hull armour is stable.
ALPHA: His weapons must be weakening.
HUNTER: The prey is heading for an asteroid belt, vector one six eight point nine. We are losing him.
ALPHA: He hasn't come here to hide. He's come to make a final stand.
HUNTER: Tracking. He's holding position above an asteroid and he's left his ship.
ALPHA: Follow him.
(The Beta selects a honking great gun, one that Tyr Anasazi would envy, then puts two white stripes on helmet.)

[Caves]

(The breathing masks are back on.)
HUNTER: The prey is scattering our sensors.
ALPHA: Impressive. He counters out pursuit to the final moment.
HUNTER: Compensating.
ALPHA: No. Disengage sensors.
HUNTER: For what reason?
ALPHA: I want to take him with my own eyes. Follow. I'll draw his attack. Prepare to target his thoracic crest.
(Their prey attacks the Hunter. It is a member of Species 8472. It takes constant fire from both their weapons to kill it.)
ALPHA: A flawless kill.

[Doctor's office]

SEVEN: Please remain still so that I can treat your injuries. Thank you. I'm sorry, did that hurt? I'll try to be more careful. Thanks for being a patient patient. Have a pleasant afternoon. This is absurd.
EMH: Not at all. Keep going, you're doing fine.
SEVEN: This vernacular is not applicable to my duties on Voyager.
EMH: We can tailor the vocabulary to your specific situations a little later. Right now, it's the sentiment that counts.
SEVEN: I don't see the relevance.
EMH: I created these exercises three years ago to familiarise myself with the social graces. I found that if I repeated them several times each day, the words became almost second nature. Let's continue. Exercise two, The Workplace Encounter. Kes used to help me with this one. Now I'll be the nurse, you be the doctor.
SEVEN: Please hand me the hypospray.
EMH: Of course, Doctor, immediately.
SEVEN: Thank you. Looks at instrument.
EMH: No, no, don't read that part, only the dialogue.
SEVEN: Excuse me, nurse. This is the wrong hypospray. Would you mind finding the correct one.
EMH: Not at all.
SEVEN: Thank you. Did I mention you look lovely today?
EMH: Oh, doctor, you're so charming.
SEVEN: This lesson is terminated. 

[Medical lab]

EMH: I know it's awkward. For me, it was even painful, but you'll find the rewards are well worth the effort.
SEVEN: Rewards?
EMH: The ability to put others at ease, make them feel more comfortable around you. You're a lot like me when I was first activated. If I'd had a mentor, things would have gone a lot more smoothly. I'm willing to share my wisdom but, if you're not interested, fine, I'll stick to your physiological maintenance.
SEVEN: I will examine your data.
EMH: Oh, good. Pay special attention to exercise seventeen, Bridge Banter for Beginners.
SEVEN: Have a pleasant day.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Verify.
TUVOK: Monotanium hull plating, dicyclic warp signature. The vessel is definitely Hirogen.
CHAKOTAY: They're moving to intercept.
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres?
JANEWAY: No. We need to settle our differences here and now. Hard about, full impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert.
KIM: They're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen. Hail them.
TUVOK: No response.
PARIS: They're closing. Fifty thousand kilometres, forty five, forty.
JANEWAY: Maintain course, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: Curious. They are not charging weapons.
PARIS: They're slowing, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
TUVOK: Only one, and it's erratic.
PARIS: They've stopped, Captain. Their engines just went offline.
CHAKOTAY: This could be a trap.
JANEWAY: Harry, run a long range scan. Are there any other Hirogen ships out there?
KIM: None.
JANEWAY: Take us within transporter range.
SEVEN: You intend to board their ship?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: The Hirogen vessel is a potential threat. We should destroy it.
JANEWAY: Seven, what you call a threat, I call an opportunity to gain knowledge about this species. And in this case, maybe even show some compassion. There seems to be a wounded pilot over there.
SEVEN: Our experience with the Hirogen indicates that compassion would not be reciprocated.
JANEWAY: And all of my experience says we've got to take that chance anyway. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, Paris, you're with me.

[Hirogen ship]

(The place is a mess. Electrical circuits are still sparking and flaring.)
PARIS: Looks like there was a fight.
CHAKOTAY: Search for the lifesigns.
(Chakotay sees an alien skeleton hanging in a net, and the wall of trophies and weapons that should remind him of the Kazon. Then he comes upon a large, transparent, bubbling vat.)
TUVOK: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading bones, muscle tissue, from at least nine different species. It's all being broken down by some sort of enzyme.
TUVOK: Perhaps this is their method of denaturating their prey.
CHAKOTAY: Either that or it's dinner.
PARIS: Looks like somebody lost their helmet. Urgh!
(Paris has discovered that the helmet is still occupied by the head of the Hunter, and dropped it.)
PARIS: Commander. I'm not picking up any weapon residuals. I'd say he was physically torn apart.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up the lifesigns. This way.
(They open a door to discover the Alpha, whimpering and hugging his honking big gun.)
CHAKOTAY: Massive internal bleeding. Let's get him to Sickbay.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: The data we downloaded from the ship's computer included navigational records. Can you give us a map of this region?
TUVOK: The is the Hirogen vessel's flightpath over the past five years.
JANEWAY: They've certainly covered a lot of space.
TUVOK: This ship alone has visited over ninety star systems in the last year.
CHAKOTAY: I analysed some of their logs. From what I can tell, this is a hunting species. We saw the skeletal remains from dozens of alien races displayed like trophies. There was also evidence they may be using some of their victims for food. The entire culture seems to be based on the hunt. Social rituals, art, religious beliefs. They're nomadic. Their existence is driven by the pursuit of prey and it's carried them across huge distances.
TUVOK: There is no evidence of a home planet. Their ships travel alone or in small groups. On occasion, several will join forces in a multi-pronged attack.
CHAKOTAY: Like wolves.
JANEWAY: How's our wolf in Sickbay?
TUVOK: Still unconscious, behind a level five forcefield
JANEWAY: You were right, Seven. This species is a threat. But despite the risk of sending an away team, we know a lot more about who we're dealing with now.
SEVEN: You were correct, Captain. It was worth the risk. This time.
JANEWAY: So there's one question remaining. Who's hunting the hunters?
(That would be the 8472 currently crawling over Voyager's hull.)

[Sickbay]

(There are armed guards here.)
EMH: I was trying to remove his body armour to treat the internal injuries when he suddenly regained consciousness. Needless to say he's not happy to be here.
JANEWAY: Can you sedate him?
EMH: I've already tried. His immune system neutralises everything. I could synthesise a more potent compound, but that would take hours. He could be dead by then. His wounds are severe.
JANEWAY: Your crewmate is dead, and your ship has been damaged beyond repair. I brought you here to treat your injuries. What happened to your ship? Who attacked you? The first time I met your species it wasn't on the best of terms, but that doesn't mean you and I can't find a way to change that.
ALPHA: Our prey.
JANEWAY: You were on a hunt?
ALPHA: Yes. A formidable alien. We captured it two days ago, but it broke free of its restraints, attacked us. Release me. I must continue the hunt.
JANEWAY: Not without your ship, and not in this condition. You'll die without treatment. Let us help you.
(The Alpha nods.)
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: All right. I'm going to enter the forcefield now and start with a few scans of your midsection. You should know I'm a hologram and can't be bent, spindled or mutilated, so don't bother trying. Please lie down. Or remain standing.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've detected six more Hirogen ships. They're converging on us from all directions.
TUVOK: The one in Sickbay may have sent a distress call from his vessel.
JANEWAY: How long do we have?
CHAKOTAY: The nearest ship is half a light year away. Four hours at most.
JANEWAY: Tom, analyse their approach pattern. Evade them as long as you can.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I want to buy the Doctor enough time to treat our hunter. If I gain his confidence, he might call off his friends. Good old-fashioned diplomacy could get us out of this yet.
CHAKOTAY: Don't count on it. From what I found in their database, diplomacy isn't a part of their lifestyle. They don't see us as equals. To them, we're simply game.
JANEWAY: It's time we convince them otherwise, or like any other cornered animal, we'll show our teeth.
(Voyager trembles.)
TUVOK: There's been a hull rupture on deck eleven, section three. Damage is minor. It appears a plasma conduit overloaded.
CHAKOTAY: Increase power to the structural integrity field.
TUVOK: A bulkhead has collapsed in Jefferies tube eighty four.
CHAKOTAY: Another overload?
KIM: Negative. The plasma network is stable. This wasn't caused by any power surge or system failure.
JANEWAY: Harry, Tuvok, get to deck eleven and check it out.

[Jefferies tube 84]

(They crawl along and open a hatch to see the end of the tube open to space, with a forcefield in place.)
KIM: This was no overload.
TUVOK: Indeed.
KIM: Commander.
(There is some residue on the deck plating.)
TUVOK: It's a dense mixture of DNA and polyfluidic compounds. Tuvok to bridge.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.
TUVOK: We may have an intruder aboard.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: I'm analysing what could be a sample of its blood. The readings are consistent with species 8472.
JANEWAY: Intruder alert. Bridge to Security, seal off decks ten through twelve.
CHAKOTAY: Internal sensors aren't detecting any intruders.
JANEWAY: The last time we ran into this species, it was impervious to our scanners. We'll have to track it visually.
PARIS: How did it get past our shields?
JANEWAY: We'll worry about that later. You have the bridge, Commander. I'll be on deck eleven.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: I've erected a level ten forcefield around Engineering.
TORRES: Good. (to other crew) Set up secondary forcefields around every hatch, Jefferies tube and conduit leading into this room. I want every one of these consoles secured. Authorised command codes only. I'm going to lock down the warp core. Ensign, realign the dilithium matrix to a frequency of three point six nine
(Torres hears something and looks up. 8472 drops down from the top of the warp core onto her. Moments later, it has gone.)
JANEWAY: Report.
SEVEN: Four crewmembers are wounded, two seriously.
JANEWAY: Get them to Sickbay.
SEVEN: Species 8472 accessed engineering through the antimatter injector port. Our phaser fire was insufficient. It attacked us then escaped through Jefferies tube seventeen alpha.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here.
JANEWAY: The intruder just left Engineering. Seal off the area.
TUVOK [OC]: Understood.
JANEWAY: Secure the warp core.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: It would seem that the Hirogen underestimated their latest prey.
SEVEN: You believe they were hunting the creature?
JANEWAY: Yes. When the Borg were fighting Species 8472, did they ever engage in physical combat?
SEVEN: On many occasions.
JANEWAY: Can you recall anything that might help us here?
SEVEN: Each time they boarded a Borg vessel, they went directly to the central power matrix and disabled it.
JANEWAY: The creature was just in Engineering. Didn't touch any of our power systems.
SEVEN: It's obviously adjusted its strategy. Species 8472 is devious and highly intelligent. It will seek the most efficient means of destroying us.
JANEWAY: Let's get to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH scans Torres on the biobed.)
EMH: She's going to be just fine, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is it alone? Have you seen any others like it?
ALPHA: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Six months ago, this species invaded our galaxy with thousands of ships. We were barely able to fight them off.
JANEWAY: Your prey could indicate another invasion. If it does, we're all in trouble. How many ships have you seen?
ALPHA: Only one. Damaged. We tracked it across fifty light years. We thought that we had killed the creature, but this prey is unlike any other. It has many lives. Lower the forcefield and I will finish the hunt.
SEVEN: Your attempt to destroy it will fail. Species 8472 is highly resistant to all technology. All but one. Borg nanoprobes.
ALPHA: Nanoprobes?
CHAKOTAY: Microscopic weapons that can attack the species on a cellular level. We've tried it before and it worked.
SEVEN: I'll modify the phaser rifles to fire nanoprobe discharges.
JANEWAY: I want you to incapacitate the creature, not kill it. Can you make that modification?
SEVEN: Yes, but it would require additional time. We must stop it as soon as possible.
ALPHA: She's right.
JANEWAY: Not until we know why it returned.
SEVEN: You will be exposing this crew to unnecessary risk.
JANEWAY: I disagree.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: You have your orders, Seven. Six of your vessels will be here in under four hours. I hope you'll let them know that we saved your life and that we want to avoid any further conflict with your people.
ALPHA: Let me resume the hunt, and I will grant your request.
CHAKOTAY: We have enough problems on this ship as it is without him running around.
ALPHA: I spent six months studying this prey's behaviour. I know how to track him. Let me continue, or I will have the others destroy you.  
(Rumble.)
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Deck 11]

TUVOK: We're holding position in section ninety four, but the creature has accessed the environmental controls. Deck eleven is losing life support. Artificial gravity has also been compromised.
(Tuvok floats upwards.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Evacuate the deck.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Regroup on deck ten.
TUVOK [OC]: Aye, Captain.
ALPHA: He's trying to barricade himself. He did the same thing to us.
JANEWAY: You want to be part of the hunt? Now's your chance. He'll be under your supervision, Commander. If he steps out of line, shoot him.
(Janeway leaves. Chakotay lowers the surgical bay forcefield.)
ALPHA: My weapon.

[Corridor]

(In environmental suits.)
CHAKOTAY: Temperature gradient.
PARIS: Affirmative.
CHAKOTAY: Atmospheric recyclers.
PARIS: Engaged.
CHAKOTAY: Is your body armour designed to handle rapid pressure fluctuations?
ALPHA: It can defeat most hostile environments. I once tracked a silicon-based lifeform through the neutronium mantle of a collapsed star.
PARIS: I once tracked a mouse through Jefferies tube thirty two.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Tuvok. We're ready to go.

[Another corridor]

TUVOK: As are we.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Proceed to deck eleven, Keep you comm. links open.
TUVOK: Understood. Activate the nanoprobe charges.
SEVEN: Level five should be sufficient to stun the creature.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Depressurising hatch. Magnetise.

[Corridor - Deck 11]

(The two groups clomp along in their magnetic boots. The Hirogen moves ahead of Chakotay and Paris.)
CHAKOTAY: Maintain your position.
ALPHA: He's here.
CHAKOTAY: I said maintain your position. This is my hunt. I'm at point.
ALPHA: My knowledge of this prey is superior you yours.
CHAKOTAY: But you're on unfamiliar terrain. I know this ship, you don't.
ALPHA: The prey will likely attack the man at point. You would not survive.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take that chance. Now fall back.
(The Hirogen steps back behind Chakotay and looks at Paris.)
PARIS: No problem. I'll take up the rear.
(In another part of the deck, Seven shoots at something. A PADD is floating in mid-air.)
TUVOK: You missed. Since species 8472 invaded the ship, you've become increasingly agitated.
SEVEN: They were the only species to offer true resistance to the Borg. They destroyed millions of drones, hundreds of our worlds. I have reason to be agitated.
(Back with group one. There are globules floating ahead of them.)
PARIS: What is it?
ALPHA: It's blood. The prey is wounded.
CHAKOTAY: This corridor ends about twenty metres ahead.
PARIS: The only thing down there is Deflector Control. It's got nowhere to run.
ALPHA: He's not planning to run. He's waiting. He'll attempt to slip around us, attack from behind.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here.
CHAKOTAY: We've cornered the intruder in section fifty nine.
TUVOK: On our way.
(8472 is floating in the middle of the corridor.)
CHAKOTAY: It's hurt.
ALPHA: This prey is resilient. He will strike with his dying breath. We must kill him now.
CHAKOTAY: That may not be necessary. Hold your fire. I said, lower your weapon.
(The Hirogen attacks Chakotay and shoots Paris, then starts on the 8472 until he gets shot in the back by Tuvok.)

[Mess hall]

TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I must ask you to exchange your spatula for a phaser rifle.
NEELIX: Sure.
TUVOK: We have two intruders on board and six Hirogen vessels on the way. I need additional security personnel.
NEELIX: Right away, sir. What's my assignment?
TUVOK: Join the security detail on deck ten, section twelve. You'll receive further instructions then. I'll expect tactical updates every twenty minutes.
(Tuvok gets a flash of 8472.)
NEELIX: Lieutenant? Are you all right?
TUVOK: You have your orders.

[Deck 11]

(Out of the environmental suits, so presumably environmental controls are back online.)
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: The Hirogen's back in Sickbay, within a forcefield.
JANEWAY: And Species 8472?
CHAKOTAY: We've established a security perimeter. Basically, we've turned this entire section into a brig.
JANEWAY: As an added precaution, have B'Elanna start working on a way to lock onto the creature, in case we have to beam it off the ship. You mentioned it was injured. In what way?
EMH: I wish I could tell you for certain. It's body is generating some sort of bioelectric field making it impossible to scan, so I could only make a visual diagnosis. It's conscious but immobile. Its epidermis displays any number of injuries, punctures, energy burns. And its demeanour is that of a wounded animal.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen said they've been chasing it for several months. Is there anything you can do?
EMH: I don't know enough about it's physiognomy to treat it's surface wounds, let alone any internal damage. Frankly, I'm at a loss.
PARIS: Captain, just before we cornered it, Species 8472 accessed Deflector Control from this panel.
SEVEN: I've analysed the transmission protocols. It was attempting to open a singularity into it's realm, but it failed.
JANEWAY: It was trying to get home.
PARIS: That's what it looks like.
(They walk on to where 8472 is slumped against the wall.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The creature initiated telepathic contact with me.
JANEWAY: What's it saying?
TUVOK: It's ship was damaged during the conflict with the Borg. When the other members of its species retreated into fluidic space, it was left behind. It has been trapped in the Delta Quadrant ever since. Alone, pursued by Hirogen hunting parties. It has no desire for further conflict. It only wants to return to its domain. It is dying, Captain.
JANEWAY: You have nothing to be afraid of. We're going to help you get back to your realm. Does it understand?
TUVOK: It does.
JANEWAY: It will take time to open a singularity and we have no way of treating your injuries, but if there's anything you can tell us about your
(8472 collapses.)
TUVOK: It has lost consciousness. Our telepathic link has been severed.

[Sickbay]

(The Hirogen is in the surgical bay behind the forcefield and under armed guard. Note - the biobed is missing.)
ALPHA: Where is my prey?
JANEWAY: Lying at the end of a corridor on deck eleven. Nearly dead, thanks to you.
ALPHA: Take me to it.
JANEWAY: No.
ALPHA: Take me to it!
JANEWAY: In less than three hours, your ships will arrive. By that time, Species 8472 will no longer be on Voyager.
ALPHA: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I'm sending it back where it came from.
ALPHA: Surrender the creature to me and you will not be harmed.
JANEWAY: This isn't a hunt, it's a slaughter, and I'm calling it off right now.
ALPHA: We will not be denied our prey. Give us the creature, or your crew will take its place.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Have Seven of Nine report to my ready room.
TUVOK: You intend to ask her to open a rift into 8472's realm.
JANEWAY: She's the only one on board who knows how.
TUVOK: Given her feelings towards the species, she may not want to cooperate.
JANEWAY: We'll see.

[Ready room]

SEVEN: You wish to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: I've made a decision about Species 8472. I'm going to return it to fluidic space. In order to do that, I need you to open a quantum singularity.
SEVEN: I don't believe that is a prudent course of action.
JANEWAY: I realise it may be difficult for you to help save this creature's life, but part of becoming human is learning to have compassion for those who are suffering, even when they're your bitter enemies.
SEVEN: Why?
JANEWAY: I remember when I was a Lieutenant. It was during a Cardassian border conflict. My away team was cut off while we were defending a Federation outpost. We'd been exchanging phaser fire with a group of Cardassians for about three days. A stalemate. One night, during a break in the fighting, we could hear this low moaning sound coming from somewhere in the brush. We knew that none of our people were out there, so it had to be a wounded Cardassian. You have to understand, we'd been killing each other for weeks on this planet. It was brutal. But our commanding officer decided that we couldn't just sit there and listen to that poor man suffer. So he ordered me and an Ensign to crawl out there and bring that Cardassian back to our camp. I thought he was crazy. He was risking our lives for someone who would have shot us without hesitation. But we did it, and the Cardassian lived. Three days later we secured the outpost. It was a major victory. We were all decorated by Starfleet Command. But in retrospect, the thing I'm most proud of was the night we saved that man's life.
SEVEN: Explain.
JANEWAY: A single act of compassion can put you in touch with your own humanity.
SEVEN: You are trying to justify your present decision.
JANEWAY: No, I'm trying to help you see this as an opportunity to grow. I know you don't want to do it, Seven, but I'm telling you as your Captain, and as your friend, you won't regret it.
SEVEN: No. Your decision is tactically unsound. We will be surrounded by Hirogen ships in approximately two hours. If we do not surrender the creature, they will destroy us. A lesson in compassion will do me little good if I am dead.
JANEWAY: It is wrong to sacrifice another being to save our own lives.
SEVEN: I have observed that you have been willing to sacrifice your own life to save the lives of your crew.
JANEWAY: Yes, but that's different. That was my choice. This creature does not have a choice.
SEVEN: It invaded our ship, put our lives at risk to save its own. In my view, it has already forfeited its freedom.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you an order. Report to Deflector Control and begin working on creating a singularity.
SEVEN: I will not comply. I have agreed to remain on Voyager. I have agreed to function as a member of your crew. But I will not be a willing participant in my own destruction or the destruction of this ship.
JANEWAY: Objection noted. We'll do this without you.
SEVEN: You will fail.
JANEWAY: And you have just crossed the line. End of debate. Report to the Cargo Bay and remain there until this is over. Is that understood?

[Bridge]

(The Hirogen have arrived, shooting.)
KIM: Shields down to eighty four percent.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
PARIS: Three more ships are closing from port and starboard. All escape trajectories have been cut off.
TUVOK: Our weapons are having little effect on their hull plating. I'm scanning for weaknesses in the molecular structure.
KIM: Shields at seventy nine percent.
TUVOK: They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: Better late than never. Open a channel.
HIROGEN [on viewscreen]: You've taken our prey and one of our hunters. Surrender them.
JANEWAY: Call off your attack and we'll return your crewman. As for your prey, it's under our protection now.
HIROGEN: It belongs to us.
JANEWAY: It belongs to no one. Now order your ships to withdraw and this can end peacefully.
(Transmission ends. Whumph!)
TUVOK: All vessels are firing.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck finding a crack in their armour?
TUVOK: Not yet.

[Deck 11]

EMH: Doctor to bridge. Species 8472 appears to be regenerating. I'm no exobiologist, but I'd say this fellow is becoming highly agitated.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: It could be sensing the Hirogen attack.
JANEWAY: Doctor, can you sedate it?
EMH [OC]: I believe so, but I'll need another dose of Borg nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: Stand by. Bridge to Seven of Nine.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY [OC]: Report to deck eleven immediately with a supply of nanoprobes.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, how's it going down there?

[Engineering]

TORRES: Transporters are ready. I can establish a lock on the creature at any time, but I still haven't duplicated the deflector protocols to open a singularity.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: How long?
TORRES: I need another hour, maybe two.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Captain, we can outmanoeuvre the Hirogen ships for a few more minutes, but beyond that
(Big Bang!)
KIM: Direct hit to the EPS manifold. Main power just went down.
TUVOK: Forcefields on all decks are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Switch to auxiliary power.
KIM: Done. Forcefields have been restored but I don't know how long they'll hold.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Doctor. Report.

[Deck 11]

EMH: It's all right, Captain. The creature is contained.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Security, respond.
(The Alpha takes a phaser rifle from the unconsious security guard.)
CHAKOTAY: Security, dispatch teams to deck five. The Hirogen may be loose.
PARIS: Direct hit to our port nacelle. Now they've taken out our starboard nacelle.
JANEWAY: They've crippled us. Tuvok, divert warp power to the phaser banks. Maybe that'll help us penetrate their hull plating.

[Deck 11]

(Seven arrives with a phaser rifle.)
EMH: The nanoprobes?
SEVEN: Armed and ready.
EMH: Not a moment too soon.
(The Hirogen shoots the guards just behind them.)
ALPHA: Give me the prey.
SEVEN: Lower your weapon or I will destroy you.
ALPHA: I don't think you will. You want me to destroy this creature. I saw it on your face earlier in the medical bay. It's a look I've seen a thousand times. Stand aside.
(Another Hirogen weapons hit makes the forcefield fluctuate. 8472 gets through and attacks the Alpha. Seven opens a panel in the wall and works quickly while they fight.)
EMH: What are you doing?

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, someone's accessing the transporter system from deck five.
JANEWAY: Lock them out.
KIM: I can't. They're overriding my commands with Borg encryption codes.
(The Alpha and 8472 are beamed away.)
JANEWAY: Report, Mister Kim.
KIM: 8472 and the Hirogen, they've been beamed to one of the attacking ships.
TUVOK: All six vessels are moving away at high warp.
JANEWAY: Tom, can we pursue?
PARIS: I'm sorry, Captain. Warp engines are still offline.
JANEWAY: Resume our previous course, full impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine.

Captain's log, stardate 51652.3. It's been twelve hours, and our sensors show no sign of any Hirogen vessels. But their people are scattered throughout this region, and something tells me that the hunt for Voyager is far from over.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven is regenerating. Janeway enters and turns off her alcove.)
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: Step down, please. Seven, you disobeyed my direct orders, and as a result you condemned a sentient being to its death.
SEVEN: By doing so, I also diverted the Hirogen attack. An attack which would have destroyed us.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. In any case, the decision wasn't yours to make.
SEVEN: The creature broke through the forcefield. I had no choice.
JANEWAY: I didn't come here to debate your decision. I came here to inform you of the consequences. When you first came to Voyager, I decided to grant you the same liberties and freedoms of any crew member, because I wanted you to be a part of this family. And I've been willing to accommodate your unique way of doing things, even when you rubbed somebody the wrong way or violated protocol. But this time, I can't accommodate you. From this point forward, you will no longer have access to any primary systems on this ship. Not without my direct authorisation. If you attempt to circumvent me, I'll throw you in the Brig. I still need your expertise in the Astrometrics lab if you're willing. If not, you can spend your time here in the Cargo Bay. Is that understood?
SEVEN: Yes.
(Janeway turns to leave.)
SEVEN: It is puzzling.
JANEWAY: What's that?
SEVEN: You made me into an individual. You encouraged me to stop thinking like a member of the Collective, to cultivate my independence and my humanity. But when I try to assert that independence I am punished.
JANEWAY: Individuality has its limits, especially on a starship where there's a command structure.
SEVEN: I believe that you are punishing me because I do not think the way you do. Because I am not becoming more like you. You claim to respect my individuality, but in fact you are frightened by it.
JANEWAY: As you were.


S4 E17
Retrospect
Stardate: 51679.4
Original Airdate: 25 February 1998

[Bridge]
(Voyager fires a missile at a target in orbit above a planet, blasting a hole straight through it.)
TUVOK: Direct hit.
KOVIN: The target buoy is solid monotanium, ten metres thick, shielded by a chromoelectric forcefield.
(The salesman is humanoid, with a pretty pattern running from the top of his nose into his hairline.)
JANEWAY: Impressive.
KOVIN: I'm glad you agree. It's not wise to travel this region without adequate defences. I've seen scuttled ships with more firepower than Voyager.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you have.
KOVIN: Imagine what you'll be capable of once the isokinetic cannon is integrated into your defensive systems. One projectile can penetrate the shields of any heavily armoured vessel. Hostile species will know to avoid Voyager by reputation alone.
JANEWAY: You've made your point, Mister Kovin. I want the cannon, and I'm prepared to give you astrometrics charts spanning twelve sectors. You'll find them unusually precise.
KOVIN: Even the most sophisticated charts become obsolete. One random anomaly and they're no longer accurate. However, I could be persuaded if you were to include the mapping technology that created them.
JANEWAY: Sorry. Our Astrometrics sensors were designed specifically for this ship. They'd be of no use to you. What I can offer you is a generous supply of isolinear processing chips. We'll even show you how to integrate them into your existing sensor technology.
KOVIN: How generous a supply?
JANEWAY: One hundred chips.
KOVIN: One hundred and fifty.
JANEWAY: One fifteen.
KOVIN: One twenty five.
JANEWAY: Done. Escort our guest to Engineering. You'll be supervising the installation of the cannon?
KOVIN: Of course. For a modest fee.
JANEWAY: Five additional chips, no more.
KOVIN: It's good to see the art of negotiation isn't lost on you, Captain.
(Kovin is escorted into the turbolift.)
PARIS: That guy is worse than a Ferengi
JANEWAY: Assign Seven of Nine to work on this. She's got a knack for adapting alien technology.
CHAKOTAY: Should I give her complete access to the engineering control systems?
JANEWAY: I'm ready to give her some latitude. She's been behaving herself lately.

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: What are you working on?
SEVEN: I'm trying to decode the message Starfleet Command sent us several weeks ago.
CHAKOTAY: Any progress?
SEVEN: None. I'm working on a new decryption algorithm.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to set it aside for a while. I have another assignment for you.
SEVEN: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: The Captain wants you to help Kovin integrate the new weapon system.
SEVEN: I'd rather not. I find him inefficient.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but you seem to work well with him. You've been asking for more responsibilities, I thought you'd be pleased.
SEVEN: The captain gives me greater liberty only when she needs my expertise.
CHAKOTAY: You violated her trust, and if you want it back, you're going to have to earn it. One step at a time.
SEVEN: I will report to Engineering.

[Engineering]

KOVIN: You'll need to install isolinear buffer circuits here and here.
SEVEN: The main power relay should be protected by a containment field.
KOVIN: Unnecessary. All the buffer circuits would have to fail simultaneously for there to be any danger.
TORRES: We prefer to play it safe. I'll check the inventory logs to see if we have a field generator available.
(Torres leaves them. Seven goes to another console to work. Kovin looks over her shoulder.)
KOVIN: What are you doing?
SEVEN: I'm reconfiguring the tactical control systems.
KOVIN: The isokinetic circuit requires a specialised protocol. Let me take care of it.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary.
KOVIN: No, no! The subroutines need to be arranged in cascading sequence. Let me show you. (Kovin pushes Seven aside, so she knocks him down. Kovin's security guard grabs Seven, then Torres joins in.)
TORRES: Seven, stop.

[Sickbay]

EMH: There's a hairline fracture of the premaxilla bone.
(Kovin's nose is bleeding.)
KOVIN: Do you see this, Captain? She shattered it.
EMH: It's easily repaired.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea why Seven attacked you?
KOVIN: It was unprovoked. She came at me like an animal!
TORRES: Oh, I wouldn't put it like that. I was at another console about ten metres away. I heard Kovin raise his voice and when I looked around I saw that he was holding her arm.
KOVIN: I barely touched her. A gentle gesture to move her out of my way so I could get to the console, then she turned on me, attacked me.
JANEWAY: What did you say to her?
KOVIN: I told her how to reconfigure the tactical control systems properly.
JANEWAY: Is that all?
KOVIN: That's all!
TORRES: And that's when she knocked him down. Ashmore and I had to hold her back.
KOVIN: She would have killed me. That woman is dangerous.
EMH: It's a miracle you survived. Now hold still or this won't heal properly.
(The EMH runs the regenerator over Kovin's pretty forehead markings.)
KOVIN: Why are you questioning me on this? You should be disciplining your crew member.
JANEWAY: Believe me, I'll deal with it. Please accept my sincere apology. Now, if you'll excuse me.
EMH: Good as new.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
(Seven enters.)
JANEWAY: Here we are again. Oh, I'm tired of having this conversation. You know what I'm going to say. I know how you're going to respond, so it seems pointless to say anything.
SEVEN: Shall I consider my privileges restricted and confine myself to the Cargo Bay?
JANEWAY: I think we've established that traditional disciplinary actions don't work with you. The question is, what will?
SEVEN: Are you asking for my opinion?
JANEWAY: I suppose I am. Because frankly I'm running out of options. Throwing you in the brig isn't going to solve anything, neither is slapping you on the wrist. And it's not as though I don't understand your feelings about Kovin. There have been a few times when I'd have liked to pop him on the nose myself. But you have to start learning the difference between having an impulse and acting on it. Does that make any sense to you?
SEVEN: I believe so. I will give it more thought.
JANEWAY: Well, that's a start.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I hear there was some excitement this morning. When I started helping you improve your social skills, I'm fairly certain I didn't include a boxing lesson. You weren't hurt, were you?
SEVEN: No.
(Seven recoils from his proximity as he scans her.)
EMH: Still a bit tense?
SEVEN: Perhaps.
EMH: I understand the burden you carry. Constantly being obligated to deal with those who fall short of excellence. I often find my own patience being tested by someone like Mister Kovin. Of course I generally respond with a devastating quip rather than a left hook. We must both accept the fact that very few lifeforms will ever meet our high standards. So, when you get irritated, just try to be tolerant, and remember, they can't help being what they are. Hmm. I'm reading some increased engrammatic activity, and your adrenalin levels are slightly elevated.
SEVEN: What does that indicate?
EMH: It's consistent with a state of heightened tension. Lie down and I'll run some scans. In a typical human, I would consider this a mood swing. But with your unique physiology, I'd like to rule out the possibility of a chemical imbalance.
(Seven lies down and the curved arms close over her. She has a flashback to a more frightening similar situation.)
EMH: Have you been experiencing any other symptoms? Headaches, disorientation?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Physiological scans seem normal. I'm going to check your Borg implants now.
(She has another flashback and turns her head away.)
EMH: Seven? What's wrong?
SEVEN: Let me out.
EMH: I will. Stay calm.
(He lets her get off the biobed.)
SEVEN: No more procedures.
EMH: All right.
SEVEN: Stay away. You mustn't do this.
EMH: Do what? Seven, what are you so afraid of?
SEVEN: I don't know.

[Medical lab]

(Seven is resting on a biobed.)
EMH: She experienced an episode of acute anxiety with all the trimmings. Intense apprehension, shortness of breath, dizziness. I finally managed to sedate her.
JANEWAY: Could this have been caused by her cortical implants?
EMH: I don't think so. I think the problem has to do with memory suppression. I've detected a high concentration of biogenic amines in Seven's hippocampus, a substance I haven't noticed before. It's blocking portions of her memory centre.
JANEWAY: Do you know where it came from?
EMH: No, but it seems to be dissipating.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Seven's unusual behaviour may be the result of the blocked memories beginning to surface. Memories which she can't identify yet.
JANEWAY: Can you treat her?
EMH: Treatment would involve integrating the repressed memories into Seven's consciousness. I may be able to use a standard therapeutic regression technique.
JANEWAY: I wasn't aware that you were programmed for psychotherapeutic capabilities.
EMH: I wasn't. But in the absence of a ship's counsellor, I've been developing a psychiatric subroutine to add to my programme. I'll be even more valuable to you than I am now.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed, Doctor.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven is standing in her alcove with a blinkie on her forehead. It's readings are on a console nearby.)
EMH: A Jungian therapist would attempt to retrieve unconscious memories by exploring synchronicities in recent events. On the other hand, Amanin of Betazed would argue that a combination of sensory isolation and focused breathing techniques would be more effective. I've integrated the finer points of both to create my own approach to memory reconstruction.
SEVEN: What does this approach involve?
EMH: First, putting you at ease by performing the treatment here, in your own environment. Once the cortical probes have reinforced the neural pathways, I'll use a directed imagery technique to guide you through the regression.
SEVEN: You may proceed.
EMH: Please, close your eyes. Clear your mind. Try not to think or to analyse.
SEVEN: My mind is now clear.
EMH: Seven, this isn't an exercise in efficiency. Close your eyes, breathe deeply. Now concentrate on the sound of my voice. Let go of the present, leave the cargo bay behind. Allow yourself to drift. Describe the first image that enters your mind.
SEVEN: A medical tricorder. Duritanium casing. Seven point six centimetres by nine point eight centimetres by three point two centimetres. Alphanumeric display.
EMH: That's enough. So, you're in Sickbay. How does the tricorder make you feel?
SEVEN: It disturbs me.
EMH: Why does it disturb you?
SEVEN: I'm afraid it will hurt me.
EMH: Is there anything else there that causes you to anticipate pain?
SEVEN: The diagnostic bed. It's closing around me.
EMH: You feel restrained, confined?
SEVEN Yes. I am uneasy.
EMH: About what?
SEVEN: It's Kovin.
EMH: What is he doing?
SEVEN: He's restraining me. I want to get away from him but I can't. Kovin's using some kind of instrument on me.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: I didn't recall this before.
EMH: Recall what?
SEVEN: Kovin. He performed a surgical procedure on me. He extracted Borg technology from my body. He violated me.
EMH: We're making progress. Now tell me, this surgical procedure, when did it happen?
SEVEN: I don't know. The details are vague. There are only images.
EMH: And you're sure it was Kovin? Did you see Kovin?
SEVEN: Yes.
EMH: You said he was restraining you, using an instrument of some sort.
SEVEN: He was.
EMH: Were you on Voyager when this happened?
SEVEN: No. It must have been when we were testing the weapons on the surface.
EMH: Then concentrate on that away mission. Focus on the first image that enters your mind. Describe it for me,
SEVEN: A large granitic stone, approximately one half metre high.
EMH: Now, allow that memory to develop beyond the image. Integrate it into your consciousness. Let the memory take shape.

[Seven's memory - Entharan weapons range]

SEVEN [OC]: I'm at the weapons range. Kovin had taken us there to evaluate various hand held firearms he wished to offer in trade.
(Paris tests one of them.)
SEVEN: He attempted to impress us with a demonstration of the weapons' destructive capabilities. My role was to provide a more objective analysis.
KOVIN: Terawatt powered particle beam rifle, four microsecond recharge cycle, ten kilometre range.
PARIS: Definitely not standard Starfleet issue. What do you think?
SEVEN: Seventy two percent fragmentation, twenty eight percent vaporisation. Crude, but efficient.
PARIS: It's not as accurate as our compression rifles, but it's a lot easier to handle. I wouldn't mind carrying one of these the next time we run into the Hirogen.
SEVEN: Targeting mechanism could be augmented with a thermal guidance sensor. That would improve accuracy by twenty four percent.
KOVIN: I can do that now. Care to join me? You can make sure the adjustments perform to your specifications.
PARIS: If you don't mind, I'd like to test some of the other firearms.
KOVIN: Go right ahead. This way.
SEVEN [OC]: Kovin took me to a small laboratory.

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]

EMH [OC]: Describe it.
SEVEN [OC]: It was poorly illuminated. I saw various instruments, technology unfamiliar to me. I assumed this was where he developed new weapon designs.
SEVEN: This weapon is thoron based.
KOVIN: Most of these hand-held disrupters are.
SEVEN: Thoron can be unstable in weapons.
KOVIN: Not if you polarise the emitter matrix. That compensates for any instabilities. Watch.
SEVEN: What are you doing?
(He fires the weapon at Seven.)

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: He turned the weapon on me.
EMH: He fired?
SEVEN: Yes, I remember it now.
EMH: What happened next?
SEVEN: I'm not sure.
EMH: Concentrate. See the laboratory in your mind.
SEVEN: There was a light in my eyes.

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]

EMH [OC]: Was Kovin still in the room with you?
SEVEN [OC]: Yes.
KOVIN: Restrain her, quickly.
SEVEN [OC]: And another Entharan was assisting him.
(A woman.)
SCHARN: This is Borg technology.
KOVIN: That's what I've been telling you.
SEVEN: Let me go.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: They bound me to an examination table.
EMH: What did they do to you? Did they scan you?

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]

KOVIN: The bio-ablation pump is engaged and pressurised.
(Liquid bubbles through cylinders and tubes. Seven is in pain.)
SCHARN: The growth medium is activating the implants. The nanoprobes are multiplying.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: They put a device near my head.

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]

SEVEN [OC]: They removed my ocular implant.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Then some of the implants in my arm were activated.
EMH: Which ones? Can you be more specific?

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]

KOVIN: Use the maximum setting of the metagenic pulse to stimulate the implants.
SCHARN: The assimilation tubules are ready.
KOVIN: Prepare to harvest the nanoprobes.
SEVEN [OC]: They extracted nanoprobes through my assimilation tubules. I was powerless, unable to stop them.
EMH: You couldn't be expected to. You were restrained. Then what happened?
SEVEN [OC]: They took the nanoprobes to another subject, also restrained. Then they, they assimilated him.
SCHARN: Well done.
(The other subject's skin turns pale, and an implant erupts through his skin.)
SEVEN [OC]: The next thing I remember I was back in Kovin's lab. He claimed the particle beam rifle overloaded, that it had burned my hand. But it was a lie. They had attacked me.
KOVIN: I'm sorry. I should have been more careful.
SEVEN: Do you have a dermal regenerator?
KOVIN: Of course.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: I'll inform the captain.

[Briefing room]

EMH: There's no doubt that Seven was the victim of a brutal assault.
JANEWAY: How is she?
EMH: As well as can be expected. She's regenerating in her alcove. I predict her emotional recovery will take some time. I certainly hope you intend to hold Kovin responsible for what he's done.
JANEWAY: First I want to know how much of her story we can corroborate. Tom, you were with her on the planet. How long was she alone with Kovin?
PARIS: At least two hours.
JANEWAY: And when she came back, did she say anything about what happened?
PARIS: Only that they'd finished their work on the rifle. She seemed fine.
EMH: Clearly Mister Kovin used some artificial means to suppress her memory of the event. That would explain the unusual engrammatic activity I found in her neurological scans.
JANEWAY: Did you find any other physical evidence of the medical procedures she described?
EMH: No. I suspect Mister Kovin used Seven's own nanoprobes to repair any cellular damage. She distinctly remembers Kovin extracting them.
TUVOK: You seem to be accepting Seven's recovered memories as fact.
EMH: Are you suggesting otherwise?
TUVOK: Historically, recovered memories have often proven unreliable.
EMH: Yes, in cases where a traumatic experience has been repressed for years. But we're dealing with a very recent memory here, that was blocked by artificial means. When I removed that mechanism, Seven remembered everything that happened.
TUVOK: Human memory is rarely perfect.
PARIS: What are you saying, Tuvok? That Seven is making this up?
TUVOK: No, but we must remember that she's experienced hallucinatory images before.
EMH: That was in direct response to a signal from the ship where she was assimilated. She's not having hallucinations now. She's remembering what happened to her. I've confirmed this by analysing the specific engrammatic activity in her hippocampus. We're not talking about conjecture, we're talking about science.
JANEWAY: Let's not get bogged down. Seven's made serious accusations and I won't dismiss them. If Kovin assaulted her, took a sample of her Borg technology, we can't stand by and do nothing. In the wrong hands a single nanoprobe could lead to disaster. Doctor, I want you to keep searching for any physical evidence to back up Seven's claim. I will talk to Kovin. Dismissed.

[Ready room]

KOVIN: This is offensive and absurd. She's obviously lying.
JANEWAY: Why would she do that?
KOVIN: Maybe you can answer that. She's your crewmember. First she attacks me, then she invents these ridiculous stories, and you try to place the blame on me. Is this some kind of negotiating tactic?
JANEWAY: I have no hidden agenda. I'm simply trying to clarify what happened.
KOVIN: I told you already. We went to my laboratory to adjust the guidance system on the particle beam rifle.
JANEWAY: And that took two hours?
KOVIN: She insisted absolute precision.
JANEWAY: We've confirmed that Seven was exposed to an intense thoron discharge.
KOVIN: She was, after the rifle's power cell overloaded. We reported the accident immediately.
JANEWAY: She now remembers that you fired the weapon at her deliberately.
KOVIN: That's preposterous.
JANEWAY: The Doctor now tells me the blast could have been enough to render her unconscious.
KOVIN: But it didn't. We were both startled for a moment. And after I apologised for the accident, she asked if I had a dermal regenerator, which I did, and I used on her arm. The one with the mechanical implants.
JANEWAY: Which you recognised as Borg.
KOVIN: I was aware she'd been a Borg. She told me herself.
JANEWAY: Did you ever express curiosity in that technology, or try to examine it more closely?
KOVIN: No.
JANEWAY: You never considered the potential value it might have as a weapon?
KOVIN: Is that what you think I've done?
JANEWAY: You may not realise how dangerous Borg technology can be. If you've taken even a single nanoprobe, I need to know about it right now.
KOVIN: I haven't taken anything.
JANEWAY: I'd like to examine your laboratory to be absolutely sure.
KOVIN: No. This has already gone too far.
JANEWAY: Then I'll have to contact the authorities. Maybe they'll be more helpful.
KOVIN: Are you willing to risk our trade agreement all on the basis of one crew member's delusions?
JANEWAY: Yes. Now, are you going to cooperate with our investigation?
KOVIN: I don't seem to have much choice.

[Tuvok's office]

TUVOK: You stated that the rifle's power cell overloaded as a result of a faulty oscillator adjustment.
KOVIN: That's right.
TUVOK: Can you describe in more detail how that occurred?
KOVIN: I was showing her how to polarise the emitter matrix. I must have tuned the induction frequency too high.
TUVOK: Were you unfamiliar with that procedure?
KOVIN: No. I have done it a hundred times. It was a careless mistake. How many times do I need to apologise?
TUVOK: I am not seeking a statement of remorse.
KOVIN: Then what do you want? Are you trying to catch me in a lie? Trick me into confessing? You can't, because there's nothing for me to confess! I haven't done anything wrong.
TUVOK: One of our crew members claims that you have.
KOVIN: Your crewmember, Seven of Nine, she's very fortunate.
TUVOK: How so?
KOVIN: She has an entire crew leaping to her defence. I have no one.
TUVOK: The Entharan representative will be here shortly.
KOVIN: You mean the Magistrate? He won't help me. He's more interested in protecting diplomatic relations with people like you.
TUVOK: Surely he'll want to know the truth. That's all we're seeking.
KOVIN: You don't understand. On my world, we depend on trade with alien species. There are strict protocols about those relationships. Even being accused of violating them is a serious offence.
TUVOK: You will have the opportunity to refute any charges.
KOVIN: It won't matter. Once they're made, the damage is done. I won't be trusted any longer. I'll be ruined. Please, I never hurt your crew member. Don't do this.
TUVOK: I'm afraid I have no choice. But I assure you our investigation will be conducted in a fair and impartial manner.
KOVIN: You strike me as a man of your word. If you tell me I won't be prejudged, then I believe you.

[Sickbay]

EMH: How are you feeling?
SEVEN: I am undamaged.
EMH: But how do you feel? Seven, your physical scars have healed, but the psychological effects are still there. You'll have to deal with them.
SEVEN: For what purpose?
EMH: In order to heal. Kovin attacked you, violated your rights as an individual. It's important that you recognise that, so you can understand any hostility or resentment you might be feeling.
SEVEN: Resentment is a human trait. It has no structure, no function. I want no part of it.
EMH: You're going to have to begin accepting the fact that your human feelings exist, and that suppressing them can damage you.
SEVEN: If I am not aware of these feelings, how can I express them?
EMH: Let me ask you this. What would have happened if Kovin had tried to take Borg technology directly from the Collective?
SEVEN: He would have been assimilated.
EMH: Precisely. Which is why he chose you. He could get what he wanted without running any risks.
SEVEN: It was my individuality which made me vulnerable.
EMH: Exactly. He violated that individuality. What he did is an affront to everything you are, Borg and Human.
SEVEN: It was the act of a coward.
EMH: Yes! Someone who was willing to use you in the cruellest way so that he could create new weapons and sell them.
SEVEN: I believe I'm beginning to experience anger. Anger toward Kovin.
EMH: Good. That's a perfectly healthy, normal response. And when Kovin gets what he deserves, you're going to feel much better.

[Kovin's laboratory]

KOVIN: Right this way, Magistrate. My laboratory.
EMH: There are no examination tables.
KOVIN: I told you, just work benches.
TUVOK: Is this the entire facility?
KOVIN: Yes.
EMH: We should scan for signs that the room may have been altered recently. During her regression, Seven described instruments similar to these.
KOVIN: Of course she did. She was here.
EMH: She said a device like this was used to remove her optic implant.
KOVIN: That's a micro-calliper. I used it to remove the casing over the guidance system on the particle beam rifle.
EMH: And isn't this an electro-dynamic probe?
KOVIN: Yes.
EMH: Hmm. It's equipped with a monofilament stimulator. Could it be used to manipulate the neurotransmitter levels in a human brain?
KOVIN: Not as it is.
EMH: But with the proper modifications?
KOVIN: With the proper modifications I could reconfigure your comm. badge to manipulate neurotransmitters. What's your point?
EMH: I believe you've just made it. There is cellular residue on many of these instruments. It matches Seven's genome. With your permission, sir, I'd like to take these tools back to Voyager where I can run more conclusive scans.
MAGISTRATE: Take whatever you need.
TUVOK: Doctor, there are a number of Borg nanoprobes on the surface of this table.
EMH: I'll just collect a sample. Hmm.
KOVIN: That's where her arm was hit when the rifle overloaded.
TUVOK: The dispersal pattern is consistent with a dermal rupture.
EMH: These nanoprobes were recently regenerated. If this were nothing more than cellular residue from Seven's injury, the nanoprobes would be dormant. But these have been activated in a very specific pattern.
MAGISTRATE: I've seen enough. Kovin, there is sufficient evidence here to detain you pending official proceedings.
KOVIN: No. Please. No.
(Kovin grabs a hand weapons.)
KOVIN: Stay where you are.
MAGISTRATE: Kovin, don't!
KOVIN: I trusted you. You said it would be an impartial investigation. But you're all determined to find what you want to find. Well, I'm not going to let this happen.
(Kovin beams himself away.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway here.
TUVOK: Mister Kovin has transported out of the laboratory.

[Bridge]

TUVOK [OC]: Can you track his present position?
JANEWAY: Stand by.
KIM: I'm picking up a transporter signature, three hundred kilometres above the surface.
PARIS: Captain, there's a ship powering it's engines at those coordinates.
JANEWAY: Magistrate, do you want us to follow him?

[Kovin's laboratory]

MAGISTRATE: Yes, but I'd like to join you.
JANEWAY [OC]: Very well. We'll beam you to Voyager. Stand by.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Kovin's ship is on a heading of one eight mark two five.
JANEWAY: Set an intercept course. Get ready to lock on a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: He's only at half impulse. His ship may not have warp engines.
PARIS: We're at nine thousand kilometres and closing.
CHAKOTAY: I'm engaging the tractor beam.
(Kovin fires a bright light at Voyager.)
PARIS: I can't find him. All of my sensor readings have disappeared.
KIM: He generated a photonic pulse. It took them offline. We'll have to reinitialise the entire sensor array.
JANEWAY: Do it. Our investigation has suddenly turned into a manhunt.
CHAKOTAY: The fact that he's running shows that he's got something to hide. Until we find out what that is, we can't risk letting him go.

Captain's log, stardate 51679.4. We've detected the warp signature from Kovin's ship and we're now in pursuit. In the meantime, Tuvok and I have been examining the tools from Kovin's lab.

[Medical lab]

JANEWAY: This isn't getting us anywhere. Seven's cellular residue is on everyone of these, but that would be true if she simply handled them.
TUVOK: My examination of the rifle is equally inconclusive. It may have overloaded accidentally, or not.
JANEWAY: I'm getting a bad feeling about this, Tuvok. We aren't finding anything that implicates Kovin.
TUVOK: I told him our investigation would be impartial. I believe it has been.
JANEWAY: It has, but I'll admit I had some preconceptions about him. They may have influenced my judgment. The strongest evidence so far is the batch of nanoprobes the Doctor found. The fact that they were regenerated suggests that Kovin was experimenting with them.
TUVOK: We don't know a great deal about the interaction between nanoprobes and Borg physiology. It might be worthwhile to simulate the effect of the rifle blast on Seven's arm and see what happens to the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: Good. Maybe that'll give us some answers. 

[Sickbay]

EMH: Is this really necessary, Captain? She's suffered enough trauma already.
JANEWAY: We don't want to make accusations against an innocent man. We have to do everything we can to find some concrete evidence.
SEVEN: He's not an innocent man. I know what he did to me.
TUVOK: But we must have proof, and this experiment may provide us with it. We've configured this hypospray to simulate the energy of a thoron blast. We'll collect thin layers of your skin tissue and examine the effects. It won't be painful.
SEVEN: I'm not afraid. I am angry.
JANEWAY: I know. Try to be patient. We may have some answers soon.
(Tuvok injects Seven's hand.)
JANEWAY: All right, let's see what we've got.
(Janeway puts a slide under a microscope.)
JANEWAY: I think you'd better take a look.
SEVEN: What do you see?
EMH: The nanoprobes are regenerating in exactly the same pattern we saw in Kovin's laboratory. It appears to be a spontaneous response which could have been caused by the energy released from the thoron weapon.
SEVEN: It doesn't matter. Kovin is guilty.
JANEWAY: Seven, there's no doubt in my mind that you believe what you're saying. But is it possible, just possible, that the memories you and the Doctor recovered aren't accurate?
SEVEN: How could that be?
JANEWAY: During your time with the Borg, you were subjected to invasive medical procedures. You undoubtedly witnessed other victims being assimilated. Could that be what you're remembering?
SEVEN: You know that's not right. Tell them.
EMH: Everything led me to believe that you were a victim. Your extreme response to Kovin in Engineering, your irrational fear when I was examining you. Something prompted that behaviour, and I believed it was a repressed memory of your ordeal with Kovin.
SEVEN: That is what it was.
EMH: But if I'm to be impartial, I have to acknowledge that your neurology is still something of a mystery to me. I can't be certain what triggered those memories, and we can't ignore the fact that this evidence supports Kovin's story, and not yours.
SEVEN: You were the one who helped me to understand what happened and now you're denying it.
JANEWAY: Seven, no one's abandoning you, but we have to do what's right. We have to find Kovin and tell him what we've learned.
SEVEN: The Doctor told me I would feel better when Kovin gets what he deserves. I want him to be punished. I won't settle for anything less.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Mister Paris?
PARIS: He's in range.
JANEWAY: Visual. Hail him.
TUVOK: No response. He's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Open a channel, all frequencies. Mister Kovin, this is Captain Janeway. We believe we've made a mistake in accusing you. We only want to correct the situation. Stand down your weapons.
TUVOK: He's responding.
KOVIN [on viewscreen]: Stop your pursuit. I can damage your ship.
JANEWAY: We're not here to take you by force.
KOVIN [on viewscreen]: Then let me go.
MAGISTRATE: Kovin, listen to me. The proceedings must be resolved.
KOVIN [on viewscreen]: This is a trap.
JANEWAY: No. We've discovered information that supports your story.
KOVIN [on viewscreen]: I don't believe you.
EMH: We've re-examined the evidence. Finding the nanoprobes led us to the wrong conclusion. We know now that your thoron rifle did overload. Please.
TUVOK: He's firing a spread of photon pulses.
KIM: Shields down to eighty two percent.
JANEWAY: Back off. Give him some breathing room.
PARIS: He's coming about, heading right for us.
CHAKOTAY: Direct hit to the power grid.
MAGISTRATE: Innocent or not, he's going to destroy your vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: He's come under enough fire from us already. Harry, try to beam him off his ship.
KIM: He's thrown up a scattering field. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Keep trying.
(Whumph!)
CHAKOTAY: Shields are down.
TUVOK: He's shunting all power to his photonic emitters.
MAGISTRATE: We must protect ourselves. Disable his ship.
JANEWAY: No! Evasive manoeuvres. Hard to port, full thrusters
PARIS: Aye.
KIM: I've almost got a lock on him. A few more seconds.
TUVOK: He's charging weapons again. Captain, his emitters are overloading. All his systems are destabilising.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Kovin, shut down your scattering field. Let us beam you aboard. Kovin!
CHAKOTAY: He's firing.
(Kovin's ship goes KaBOOM!)
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: I can't find anything to lock onto, Captain.
MAGISTRATE: There's nothing more we could have done.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Mister Paris, set a course back to the Entharan colony.
(Janeway gives the EMH then Seven stern Looks before sitting down.)

Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 51658.2. I've spent the past three days being cross-examined by the Entharan authorities, but the matter is finally resolved.

[Doctor's office]

SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: Yes.
SEVEN: I'm here for my weekly maintenance.
EMH: Oh, of course. This way, please.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Metabolic rate is stable. Electro-optic implant is aligned. Your blood pressure is slightly off, but within tolerance. You're in perfect health. See you next week.
SEVEN: I do not feel perfect.
EMH: What do you mean?
SEVEN: I am preoccupied by Kovin's death.
EMH: Join the club. It's all I can think about.
SEVEN: As a Borg, I was responsible for the destruction of countless millions and I felt nothing. But now, I regret the destruction of this single being.
EMH: It's called remorse, Seven. It comes into play when you make a mistake, and you feel guilt about what you've done. Another new emotion for you to experience.
SEVEN: I do not enjoy this remorse any more than I enjoyed anger. Will the feeling subside?
EMH: Yes. But not quickly.
SEVEN: I would rather not have to wait.
EMH: I'm afraid you don't have much choice.
(Seven leaves.)
EMH: But maybe I do.

[Ready room]

EMH: I've isolated the algorithms responsible for my desire to expand beyond my original programming. I want to delete them.
JANEWAY: Why?
EMH: It was my urge to experiment, my infatuation with improving myself, that led to this tragedy. I fancied myself a psychologist, a ship's counsellor. But I wasn't prepared for the complexities that come with such a responsibility. In my enthusiasm to help Seven of Nine, I lost my medical objectivity. I became a self-righteous advocate. I didn't stop to think for one second that I might be wrong. That mustn't happen again.
JANEWAY: You want to go back to the state you were in when we first activated you?
EMH: I'll still be capable of treating any and all medical conditions, but without the risk of overstepping my bounds. It's for the best, Captain.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm not so sure. This crew has benefited greatly from your improvements over the years. Request denied.
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: I won't turn back the clock because of one mistake, no matter how serious. And no matter how you might feel.
EMH: I'm a physician. I'm supposed to preserve life, not destroy it. I can't live with the thought that I might do it again.
JANEWAY: With any luck, that knowledge will prevent it from happening again. We all rallied around Seven, Doctor, myself included. I wanted her to know she was part of this family, that we would support her, fight for her, no matter what. We let our good intentions blind us. We all bear responsibility for Kovin's death, and we all have to live with it. But to delete that burden would be the last thing any of us should do.


S4 E18
The Killing Game Part 1
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 4 March 1998

[Holodeck two - Klingon battle simulation]
(Janeway, as a Klingon warrior, is fighting other warriors.)
JANEWAY: P'tahk! Prepare to meet your ancestors!
(But the other warriors keep pushing her back until one manages to thrust the point of his bat'leth into her chest, knocking her down on her back.)
JANEWAY: This battle is yours today, but the House of Mo'kai will never yield.
(She grabs a mace from a fallen Klingon and resumes the fight. She is interrupted by an Hirogen in Klingon armour.)
KARR: Doh-cha scree! Move away, coward. I want to make this kill.
JANEWAY: You should have killed me when my back was turned.
KARR: I want to see the fear in your eyes.
JANEWAY: Look closely and you'll see your own destruction.
KARR: You are resilient prey.
JANEWAY: I'm no one's prey.
(She raises the mace and he stabs her in the stomach.)
KARR: You are mine, now and after death. Sickbay, this is Holodeck two. Janeway requires medical assistance.

[Sickbay]

(Voyager is surrounded by Hirogen vessels. Janeway now looks human on the biobed. An Hirogen is working in Sickbay.)
MEDIC: She'll survive.
KARR: What about her neural interface?
(The medic scans a Y shaped scar below Janeway's jawline.)
MEDIC: Stable.
KARR: Are you sure? There were times when she seemed aware of who she is.
MEDIC: Impossible. I was monitoring the crew during the entire simulation. She believes she's whoever we programme her to be. Shall I return her to the Klingon simulation?
KARR: No. Bring her to Holodeck one. I've found another programme I want to try. A conflict that took place on her own planet. It should prove stimulating.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

(A French café during World War 2. Mademoiselle de Neuf is singing It Can't Be Wrong to piano accompaniment.)
SEVEN: Wrong, would it be wrong to kiss? Seeing I feel like this, would it be wrong to try? Wrong, would it be wrong to stay, here in your arms this way, under this starry sky? If it is wrong (Tuvok is the bartender in a white jacket, and the owner wears a white three piece man's suit à la Marlene Dietrich as she greets her Nazi and French customers. She moves amongst the tables.)
JANEWAY: Welcome to Le Coeur de Lion. I'm Katrine. The first round is with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside. More escargot for table nine. Jacques, no lady tonight? Oh, we'll have to see what we can do about that.
(She sits at a table.)
JANEWAY: Forgive my neglecting you. Now, where were we? Ah, yes, my latest adventure in Paris.
(She looks over to the bar and sees Tuvok nod towards the entrance. Two Hirogen Nazi officers are entering.)
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I'll have to neglect you again. Excuse me.
(She goes to the bar.)
TUVOK: That's him.
JANEWAY: Our new Kommandant?
TUVOK: British intelligence believes he's been sent here to oversee the occupation of the city.
JANEWAY: What's his history?
TUVOK: He served with Rommel in North Africa and Schmidt in Poland. He is a formidable military strategist, notorious for his cruelty.
JANEWAY: Ah. Let's make him feel at home. Send him a bottle of Chateau LaTour. My compliments.
TUVOK: The '29?
JANEWAY: I hate to waste good wine. Give him the '36.
TUVOK: As you wish.
SEVEN: And I have waited so long. It must be right. It can't be wrong.
(The song finishes, and she gets a round of applause.)
SEVEN: Merci. Be generous to Claude this evening. Without him, my voice is empty. Good evening.
TURANJ: Sing.
SEVEN: Tonight's performance is over. Return tomorrow.
TURANJ: Now.
SEVEN: Remove your hand.
TURANJ: Obey me, or I will hunt you down and your bones will adorn the bulkhead of my ship.
KARR: Sit down and play the game. In this setting, we have no ships. We are an ancient race of soldiers intent upon conquering this world. Play the game.
JANEWAY: Now, now, what's this? Mademoiselle LeNeuf will be happy to sing another song. Just give her a few minutes to freshen up.
SEVEN: It's late.
JANEWAY: Freshen up.
SEVEN: Very well.
JANEWAY: Kommandant Karr.
KARR: You know me.
JANEWAY: Your reputation precedes you. I'm Katrine. Le Coeur de Lion is my establishment. The first round is with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside.
KARR: I wish to speak with her. Alone.
(The nearby French patrons and the SS officer leave them.)
JANEWAY: Charming gentleman.
KARR: He is disoriented. Your world is unfamiliar to him.
JANEWAY: He'll be comfortable soon enough. The arms of France are open to all.
KARR: I've heard otherwise.
(They sit at a table.)
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
KARR: I understand there is opposition to our presence here among your citizens.
JANEWAY: The Resistance? In Paris perhaps. But this is a small city, defenceless. We've learned to be a little more diplomatic. When this war is over we want to remain on good terms with the victor.
KARR: Whoever that may be.
JANEWAY: Whoever that may be.
(A waiter brings the wine and glasses.)
KARR: Your city may be defenceless, but it's crucial to the war. Any ground assault into Germany must pass through this province. The Resistance will come here.
JANEWAY: If they do, I'll tell them what I tell everyone. Leave the war outside.
(The Hirogen Alpha tries the wine.)
KARR: Excellent.
(An Hirogen SS officer comes to the table.)
TURANJ: Kommandant, I've been informed there's a problem in the Engineering section. The warp plasma network has become unstable.
JANEWAY: What's he talking about?
KARR: It need not concern you. To the hunt.
JANEWAY: The hunt?
KARR: For the Resistance. I shall take great pleasure in tracking them down and making the kill.
(He kisses her hand and leaves.)
JANEWAY: Au revoir.
(Later, Seven is counting the takings.)
JANEWAY: How'd we do?
SEVEN: Insufficient for a Saturday night. Twelve hundred forty seven francs and eighty one Reichmarks.
JANEWAY: Well, it should be enough to buy an oscillator to extend the range of our radio. First thing tomorrow morning I want you to take a little trip to the countryside. There's a Monsieur Groleau who has a cottage just past the third bridge. He's got a wine cellar full of vacuum tubes. Tell him we need a high frequency oscillator. Offer him three hundred francs but don't go any higher than five hundred.
SEVEN: We have more pressing needs.
JANEWAY: Such as?
SEVEN: Explosives. We need a launcher that can fire armour piercing grenades.
JANEWAY: Planning on blowing up a German tank?
SEVEN: If necessary.
JANEWAY: We're not trying to build an army here.
SEVEN: Then maybe it's time we did. Three more German battalions have occupied the city and a Panzer division is holding position eleven kilometres away. When the Americans arrive and the fighting begins, I don't intend to be standing next to a piano singing Moonlight Becomes You.
JANEWAY: The Americans won't even be able to approach this city without our help. And if they can't liberate Sainte Claire the assault into Germany could fail. We need to be gathering information about German troop movements and relaying it to Allied Command.
SEVEN: I'm tired of lighting the Nazi's cigarettes and laughing at their jokes. We should be helping the Allies by assassinating these pigs.
JANEWAY: The moment we start shooting we expose ourselves. Right now, no one suspects us. And I am not about to risk our entire operation because you've suddenly developed a nervous trigger finger.
SEVEN: That is your opinion, Madame.
JANEWAY: I'm the leader of the movement here and right now my opinion is the only one that counts, so get the oscillator. I think we're all feeling the strain. It's been a hard four years. But believe me, the Third Reich is feeling it too. We just have to hang on a little while longer. Word from the Americans is going to come any day.
SEVEN: Perhaps.
(Seven leaves.)
TUVOK: Again?
JANEWAY: Again. Why is she so adamant? What she's proposing would put us all at risk.
TUVOK: Maybe that's her intention.
JANEWAY: If you have suspicions, my old friend, let's hear them.
TUVOK: From the beginning, she's been argumentative, and on more than a few occasions she's disobeyed your direct orders.
JANEWAY: She's headstrong. Typical of the underground.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, her behaviour has threatened our identities.
JANEWAY: She's the only munitions expert we have, and she can carry a tune. We need her. Let's keep our eye on her. Have her followed for the next few days. If she is a Nazi infiltrator, we'll have to eliminate her.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

(Neelix cycles down the road with baguettes and bottles of wine in his panniers.)
NEELIX: Bonjour, madame.
WOMAN [OC]: Bonjour.
(Neelix snatches an apple as he passes a stall.)
NEELIX: Put it on my account. Guten Tag.
TURANJ: You! Halt!
(Neelix obeys.)
TURANJ: Get off your vehicle. What are you transporting?
NEELIX: Nothing but the very essentials of life.
(The Hirogen grabs a baguette and breaks it in two. Then he opens a bottle and pours the contents out.)
TURANJ: Proceed to your destination.
NEELIX: That I will. That I most certainly will.
TURANJ: If the choice were mine, you would already be dead.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

RADIO: More report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five degrees to
(Torres is writing all this down when static breaks it up.)
TORRES: Damn, I'm missing it.
(Meanwhile, Tuvok turns around a painting of a naked lady to look at a map fastened to the back.)
TUVOK: Our most recent intelligence shows two German divisions here and here.
JANEWAY: How recent is this intelligence?
TUVOK: Forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Old news.
RADIO: I'm Reginald Smith and you're listening to the British Radio Network. This report will repeat in
TORRES: Forty five seconds.
RADIO: Forty five seconds.
TORRES: Here's to English precision.
(Someone knocks on the door. Janeway picks up a handgun.)
JANEWAY: We're closed.
NEELIX [OC]: Morning delivery.
(She lets him in.)
JANEWAY: You're late. What happened?
NEELIX: Oh, just a t�te-à-t�te with a member of the Master Race.
JANEWAY: That's the second time this week. Sounds like they're increasing their patrols.
TUVOK: Perhaps it's time we chose another courier. Our baker is arousing suspicion.
NEELIX: There's no need to worry. I change my route every day, and I've become quite friendly with most of the Gestapo. They just love my strudel. (Neelix carefully peels the label from the now empty bottle of Quart de Chaume.)
RADIO: A kind thank you to Jazzy McNulty and his Band. Now, the weather for today, September the twenty second, nineteen forty four. In London skies are grey, with a strong chance of afternoon rain. Temperatures will range from a low of fifty two degrees to a high of seventy one. The northern coast reports heavy rain and strong winds, ocean swells reaching four feet. Devonshire, Hertfordshire and Summershire all report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five degrees to a high of sixty three. I am Reginald Smith and you are listening
(Torres turns off the radio.)
TORRES: Got it. Let's see the code key.
JANEWAY: Every fifth letter, every third vowel. Use the Sunday decryption sequence. A, H, C. Straight from Allied High Command.
NEELIX: It must be important.
TUVOK: All messages regarding the war are important. It's only a matter of degree.
NEELIX: I suppose you're right, but do you have to be so logical about everything?
TUVOK: In any covert battle, logic is a potent weapon. You might try it sometime.
JANEWAY: American Fourth Infantry to invade Sainte Claire Tuesday dawn.
NEELIX: That's two days from now.
JANEWAY: Require assistance. Disable enemy communications. End message.
TUVOK: The German radio transmitter is housed at their headquarters.
NEELIX: That building is surrounded by guards. We can't just waltz in there and plant a bomb.
TORRES: Maybe I can help.
JANEWAY: How?
TORRES: I'm upset. I need to see my special friend. Even if it means bothering him at the office.
TUVOK: A reconnaissance mission.
TORRES: I'll try to locate the radio, see where the guards are posted, examine the locks. Gather enough information to get us inside.
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous. If you're caught, you'll be tortured for information.
TORRES: You don't know my friend. He would never do anything to harm his own child.
(For the only time this season, the show acknowledges Roxanne's real-life pregnancy.)
JANEWAY: Encode a response to Allied Command. Confirm that we've received their message. Tell them we're proceeding according to plan.

[Outside German HQ]

(A woman spits at the ground when she sees Torres. Torres goes closer to the building, then grabs at her belly and stumbles. The guard comes over to help her, and they speak in German.)
GUARD: Was es ist, Fräulein?
TORRES: Ich muß mit ihrem Hauptmann sprechen.
GUARD: Kommen hier.
(He helps her go inside.)

[Kapitan's office]

(The Kapitan is a human, and an SS officer.)
KAPITAN: Ever since my days at the university I've admired this painting, and now it's mine. Our fellow officers might prefer gold or land, but for me the greatest prize of war is art.
KARR: Trophies of the hunt. But was the hunt fair?
KAPITAN: Sir?
KARR: We entered this city with superior firepower against a weakened prey. Do you really deserve these prizes?
KAPITAN: We are German. The German people deserve Europe and everything in it.
KARR: Why?
NAZI: Sir, you question our destiny?
KARR: Of course not. But I want to hear it in your own words. Tell me, why are we the Master Race?
KAPITAN: Our blood is pure. Our people lived and hunted on this land for a thousand years before the degenerate races brought their corruption. Europe must be purified.
KARR: You yourself, are you stronger than these degenerate races? More cunning?
KAPITAN: Yes, of course.
KARR: And if you were alone without an army supporting you, would you continue the hunt? If your prey were armed instead of defenceless, what then?
KAPITAN: I, Colonel, I, I don't know what you're trying
(The Hirogen grabs his throat.)
KARR: You are superior to no one! Never underestimate your prey or disrespect its abilities. If you do, you will become the hunted. When the opposing army invades this city, remember my words.
(The Kapitan nods. There is a knock on the door.)
KARR: Enter.
(Torres is shown in. A copy of Da Vinci's lost Leda and the Swan is one of the paintings on the wall.)
KAPITAN: Brigitte.
TORRES: I'm sorry, I know I'm not supposed to come here. Don't blame him. I told him that I was ill and I had to see you.
KARR: I will leave you two alone.
KAPITAN: Heil Hitler!
(The Alpha leaves without returning the salute.)
KAPITAN: It's all right, the Colonel is in a strange mood today.
(He hugs Torres.)
KAPITAN: What's wrong? Is it our child?
TORRES: I don't know. I was dizzy.
KAPITAN: I'll call the doctor.
TORRES: No. I feel better now. Maybe I just needed to see you. Why haven't you shown me this place before?
KAPITAN: I didn't want your neighbours to see you coming here. They make it difficult enough, knowing we're together.
TORRES: I don't care what they think. It's beautiful.
(She is referring to a small sculpture on a side table.)
KAPITAN: Praxiteles, master sculptor of ancient Greece. There are only three like this in all of Europe.
TORRES: So many wonderful things.
(Including a soldier with headphones on sitting at a radio set.)

[Sainte Claire - Street]

(Two Hirogen are walking together. )
TURANJ: The Kommandant would have us continue this simulation until we rot. It's pointless. We should begin the hunt. He believes we must learn more about our prey, but I have learned enough. Ready your weapon. Avoid the cranium.
(Neelix is wheeling his bicycle along the street. They shoot at him. People scatter, but Seven shoots back.)
SEVEN: This way.
NEELIX: But the message.
SEVEN: There's no time!
(They run around the corner and down an alleyway. The door they find is locked, but they are out of side when a motorbike and sidecar drive past. Neelix steps out of hiding, then Seven. The Hirogen Captain shoots her gun out of her hand, then both of them in the back as they try to run away.)
TURANJ: Computer, exit holodeck. We'll take them to the medical bay.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is assisting the medic to treat Seven. Neelix is on another biobed.)
MEDIC: This neural interface has been damaged.
EMH: That's because it took a direct hit when one of your bullets grazed the base of her skull.
MEDIC: I'll provide you with another. Install it.
EMH: Not until I've repaired her injuries.
MEDIC: How long?
EMH: She has two fractured vertebrae and a punctured lung. Another hour at least.
MEDIC: Him?
EMH: I've stabilised his vital systems, but he still has bullet fragments lodged in his shoulder.
MEDIC: I will treat him.
EMH: This time you might do a better job repairing the muscle lacerations. The last crewmember you treated was brought back in with internal bleeding.
MEDIC: Your crew is fragile. They fall too easily.
EMH: What do you expect? They've been stabbed, shot, beaten, phasered and bat'lethed over the past three weeks. Their bodies weren't designed for this kind of punishment.
(The Hirogen Alpha enters.)
KARR: What happened?
MEDIC: These prey were hunted by Turanj. Their injuries are severe.
EMH: You assured me that your people would avoid causing serious head injuries. Another centimetre and the bullet would have penetrated her brain. If you can't keep your people under control, then you should put an end to this blood sport.
KARR: The simulations will continue.
EMH: At least activate the holodeck safety protocols.
KARR: No.
EMH: It'll prevent life-threatening injuries for your people as well.
KARR: It will also eliminate the challenge.
EMH: I have had twenty eight wounded and one fatality in the past twelve hours. Even I can't keep up with that level of triage.
KARR: You will keep up or they will die. Their lives are in your hands, Doctor. Don't fail them. When that one is ready, place him in holodeck two. Let's see how he fares with the Klingons.
MEDIC: What about her?
KARR: Send her back to holodeck one. I like her voice.

[Bridge]

KARR: Progress?
KIM: By cutting through the bulkheads on decks four, five and six we've been able to expand both holodeck grids by five thousand square metres.
KARR: More.
KIM: I can't give you any more. Not without compromising Voyager's primary systems.
KARR: Then compromise them.
KIM: Look, holodecks require a tremendous amount of energy. I've already rerouted power from all nonessential systems. Anything more, and we'll start losing propulsion, deflectors, even life support.
KARR: I'll transfer a supply of power nodules from my vessel. Integrate them into your systems. I want to expand the holo-projectors into all surrounding sections. Replicate enough emitters for the task.
(The Alpha walks away.)
KIM: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]

(Kim is working with a black crewman. An Hirogen stands guard nearby.)
KIM: The holo-emitters in this corridor are stable. Let's start working on section nineteen. (sotto) But first, tell the guard to escort you to Engineering. That we need more equipment. Specifically, a type three isolinear emitter. If he gives you any trouble, say I can't complete the assignment without it.
(The crewman goes to their guard.)
ASHMORE: We need an isolinear emitter from Engineering.
(The guard escorts Ashmore, and they both get into the turbolift. Kim summons the EMH.)
EMH: Ensign, how did I get here?
KIM: I transferred you here, using the new emitters in this section.
EMH: I assume you've got a plan?
KIM: Half a plan.
EMH: Let's hear it.
KIM: Before we can retake the ship, we've got to get the crew back. That means disabling the neural interfaces.
EMH: Easier said than done. The great Hunters are everywhere you turn.
KIM: Don't worry, I think I've found a way to tap into the Sickbay diagnostic console. The only catch is
(The guard and Ashmore return.)
KIM: Standby with the emitter. I'm almost done here.  
(Kim goes around the corner and the EMH reappears.)
EMH: The catch, Ensign?
KIM: Somebody's got to be inside the holodeck to engage the bridge control relays.
EMH: We're short-handed.
KIM: I know.
EMH: Well, we've got a Borg on board, don't we? Maybe we can put her to good use.

[Ready room]

(Redecorated in the Hirogen style. The Hirogen SS officer enters.)
KARR: I've been studying Voyager's database looking for our next simulation. There are many to choose from. These people have a violent history. I believe I've found a worthy prey. The Borg. When World War Two is over, we will recreate a notorious battle known as Wolf 359.
TURANJ: I look forward to it.
KARR: I thought you might. But if you continue to disobey me, this is one hunt you will never see. You nearly destroyed two of my favourite prey. You were careless.
TURANJ: I've become impatient. We penetrated this vessel, overcame their defences, and in the moment of the kill, you forced us to stop. Now we play these incessant games. It's time we took our trophies and moved on.
KARR: Your lust for the kill has blinded you, like many young hunters. If you took the time to study your prey, to understand its behaviour, you might learn something.
TURANJ: There is nothing to be learned.
KARR: You're wrong. Each prey exposes us to another way of life and makes us re-evaluate our own. Have you considered our future? What would become of us when we have hunted this territory to exhaustion?
TURANJ: We will travel to another part of space, search for new prey, as we have always done.
KARR: A way of life that hasn't changed for a thousand years.
TURANJ: Why should it?
KARR: Species that don't change, die. We've lost our way. We've allowed our predatory instincts to dominate us. We disperse ourselves throughout the quadrant, sending ships in all directions. We've become a solitary race, isolated. We've spread ourselves too thin. We're no longer a culture. We have no identity. In another thousand years, no one will remember the name Hirogen. Our people must come back together, combine forces, rebuild our civilisation.
TURANJ: What of the hunt?
KARR: The Hunt will always continue, but in a new way. I intend to transform this ship into a vast simulation, populated with a varied and endless supply of prey. In time, this technology can be duplicated for other Hirogen. These holodecks will allow us to hold onto our past, while we face the future.
TURANJ: Even if I were persuaded, others wouldn't be.
KARR: Then you are with me? I must continue my research. I'll see you tomorrow on holodeck one. The Americans are due to invade.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH wakes Seven and whispers in her ear.)
EMH: Remain calm and stay quiet. There's a Hirogen working in the bio-lab. He might hear us. What's the last thing you remember?
SEVEN: An attack. Hirogen vessels. They breached our hull and boarded the ship. I was in a phaser fight on deck three. I was struck several times. That's all I remember.
EMH: Then you have no memory of the simulations in the holodeck?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: The neural interface must be circumventing your memory centres.
SEVEN: Neural interface?
EMH: It's a subdermal transmitter that links your neocortex to the holodeck. In essence, it makes you believe you're a character within the programme.
SEVEN: Why am I in Sickbay?
EMH: You were wounded in a simulation. It's my job to patch you all up and send you back in. Half the crew is under lock and key. The rest are fighting for their lives on the holodeck. This has been going on for nineteen days. Dozens of battle scenarios, one more brutal than the last. You should see what a mess you were after the Crusades.
SEVEN: Will I be sent into another simulation?
EMH: Yes, but this time with an advantage. I have found a way to disable the interface by remodulating one of your Borg implants to emit a jamming signal. Once the Hirogen have brought you back to the holodeck, the jamming signal will activate within seconds.
SEVEN: My objective?
EMH: You mind a control panel inside the holodeck and engage the bridge access relays. That will enable Ensign Kim and me to deactivate all the neural interfaces. After Captain Janeway and the crew regain awareness, you can work with them to mount a resistance against the Hirogen.
SEVEN: What simulation will I be entering?
EMH: World War Two. A twentieth century Earth conflict. Do you know anything about it?
SEVEN: Nothing.
EMH: That could be a problem. Once the interface is disabled, you won't remember anything about your role in the simulation. Think of it as a new social setting. Do your best to fit in.
MEDIC: This is the last neural interface. When you've finished with her, you'll help me replicate more.
EMH: I have to sedate you now.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

SEVEN: (singing) That old black magic has me in it's spell. That old black magic that you weave so well. Those icy fingers up and down my spine. The same old witchcraft when your eyes meet
(There is a fizzing sound and she stops, confused.)
SEVEN: I must discontinue this activity. I am not well.
KARR: If the entertainment is over, I'll be going.
JANEWAY: Stay right there, Kommandant. I'm sure she's fine. Let me talk to her.
(Janeway goes to Seven at the bar.)
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: I require a glass of water.
JANEWAY: Make it a quick one. I promised the Kommandant you'd be singing till midnight. I want to get a lot of information out of him tonight.
SEVEN: I am ill.
JANEWAY: Look, I don't care if you're dying. Get back out there.
SEVEN: I won't.
(Seven walks away.)
JANEWAY: Maybe you're right about her.
TUVOK: The evidence is increasing. She was present today when our courier was shot down in the street, yet somehow, she was unharmed. And now, on the eve of our liberation, she becomes uncooperative.
JANEWAY: Leave this to me.

[US Army - Captain's Tent]

(Under a picture of President Roosevelt, a Native American with a nice tattoo over his left eye studies and marks maps.)
PARIS: Captain?
CHAKOTAY: At ease. What's the word?
PARIS: There is no word. At least not from the Resistance in Sainte Claire.
CHAKOTAY: Then we won't get any support from inside the city.
PARIS: You may be underestimating the good citizens of Sainte Claire. I spent a summer there when I was eighteen.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. You ate a few snails, fell in love with a local girl and became an expert on the city?
PARIS: Ah, well, yeah, pretty much like that.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
PARIS: But believe me, Captain, those people love their town. They'll fight for it and die for it. Don't count them out yet.
CHAKOTAY: All right, but I won't count them in, either. We continue as planned. An assault from the north at first light. So, who was the mademoiselle?
PARIS: Her name was Brigitte. Great gams. One hell of a temper.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like your kind of girl.
PARIS: August 29, 1936, 12:17 p.m. That's when my train pulled out of Sainte Claire. That's the last time I saw her. We wrote to each other every week for three years. Then the war broke out and I never heard from her again.
CHAKOTAY: Sainte Claire's not a big place. She shouldn't be too hard to find.
PARIS: I'm counting on it.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

JANEWAY: You'll maintain position here, twenty metres from the front doors. Arm yourself with a submachine gun and watch for any sign of trouble.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Now, we've observed a twenty second break in the guard rotation at four fifteen a.m. That should you and me enough time to enter the building through the storm window on the eastern wall.
TORRES: When I was there yesterday I saw guards posted at all three stairways. You'll have to reach the second floor through the elevator shaft. The command post is in the main gallery at the end of the hall.
JANEWAY: Once inside, we plant the charges, blow the transmitter. You'll remain here. If something goes wrong and we're caught, destroy all evidence of the Underground. Our contact list, decryption codes, everything.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: We leave in one hour.
(Seven looks at a grenade. Janeway picks up a bar of plastic explosive.)
JANEWAY: This won't make much of a bang. You forgot to connect the detonator.
SEVEN: I will correct the error.
JANEWAY: It's lucky I found your little error. It might have undermined our mission. Are you having second thoughts about tonight?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Good, because I don't want any more mistakes.
SEVEN: There won't be any.
JANEWAY: Let's hope not.

[Mess hall]

EMH: We've got to stop meeting like this.
KIM: I managed to grab a quick scan of holodeck one, and it looks like Seven of Nine is on the move. Are you ready in Sickbay?
EMH: My Hirogen taskmaster is working in the bio-lab. I'll have access to the medical console for another twenty minutes at least.
KIM: That'll give me enough time to get to the bridge.
(The EMH vanishes and two Hirogen enter.)
KIM: Good afternoon.
YOUNG HIROGEN: What are you doing in here?
KIM: Trying to get the replicator system back online. Unless you prefer the emergency rations? Personally, I'm getting tired of synthetic protein. You're supposed to be the finest hunters in the quadrant, why don't you find us something a little more tasty? Is something wrong?
YOUNG HIROGEN: An unauthorised transmission was sent from this room.
KIM: What kind of transmission?
YOUNG HIROGEN: I don't know. Maybe you can tell me.
KIM: Well, I was trying to re-route power from the main computer to the replicators. Of course. I must have tripped a communications subroutine. Sorry about that. Didn't mean to worry you. Your people have damaged just about every system on this vessel. Accidents are bound to happen. Now, if you don't mind, I'm due on the bridge.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Show it to me.
KIM: What?
YOUNG HIROGEN: I want to see this subroutine. Show me what you were doing when the accident occurred.
KIM: Forget it. I don't have time.
(The Hirogen knocks Kim down.)
YOUNG HIROGEN: Do as I say.
KIM: All right! But you'd better call the bridge. Tell your superior I'm going to be late, that I'm working under your orders now, not his. Go ahead, make the call. I don't want to take the blame for this.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Report to the bridge.
KIM: Thanks.

[Kapitan's office]

(The radio operator is writing down a Morse code transmission. Janeway knocks him out.)
JANEWAY: Set the charges here, here and there. This looks like a message from one of their reconnaissance teams.
(Janeway takes the headphones and listens. Seven removes books from a shelf to reveal the holodeck controls.)
JANEWAY: These must be instructions for troop deployments. The Germans must be taking up new positions outside the city. It looks like they're mobilising more troops than our sources originally expected.
(The computer beeps up on the bridge. A monitor at the back of Ops says Holodeck One Access Enabled. Kim works consoles, and one in Sickbay proclaims Neural Interface Access Enabled. The EMH presses buttons to bring up Janeway's personnel file.)
JANEWAY: They're moving armoured units into the valley. They must know the Americans are coming. We've got to warn them somehow. What are you doing? You haven't set the charges. What is that?
SEVEN: I believe it is a transmitter. I'm attempting to disable it.
JANEWAY: You're sending a message to the Nazis.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Step away, or I'll kill you.

[Sickbay]

MEDIC: What are you doing?
EMH: Er, nothing. Just running a diagnostic.
MEDIC: You've accessed the neural interface controls. Stop it immediately.

[Kapitan's office]

JANEWAY: I told you no more mistakes. You've just made your last one.
(Janeway starts to squeeze the trigger on her gun. In Sickbay the console says Neural Interface Disabled. Janeway gets a stab of pain below her ear.)
JANEWAY: Ow! Seven?
SEVEN: Captain.

[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation]

(As a Klingon.)
NEELIX: Listen. A targ, just beyond that ridge.
KARR: You would hunt down a simple beast even in the midst of our enemies?
NEELIX: There is no enemy as great as hunger.
(The Alpha's comms beeps.)
KARR: Why am I being interrupted?

[Sickbay]

MEDIC: The holographic Doctor, he's disabled their Captain's interface.
KARR [OC]: How?
MEDIC: I don't know, but I can't re-establish the link.
KARR: Send a team

[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation]

KARR: To holodeck one. Remove her from the simulation.

[Kapitan's office]

(Outside, Tuvok fires his machine gun at a pair of Hirogen.)
SEVEN: Hirogen hunters.
JANEWAY: Internal scans show thirteen of them on this holodeck.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

CHAKOTAY: Need a hand, buddy? Captain Miller, Fifth Armoured Infantry.
TUVOK: Welcome to Sainte Claire.
CHAKOTAY: Get me artillery unit Charlie One. Take up positions along this street and start laying down fire.

[Kapitan's office]

(A Klaxon wails.)
SEVEN: The Americans have arrived.

[Bridge]

KARR: You circumvented our control. How?
KIM: Go to hell!

[Le Coeur de Lion]

(Torres takes a rifle from behind the bar and takes up position by the door. A figure enters.)
TORRES: Bobby.
PARIS: You owe me a postcard.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

CHAKOTAY: Distance eight hundred yards. Correct for crosswinds. Fire at will. Take cover, boys. Charlie One isn't known for accuracy.

[Kapitan's office]

(Seven watches from the windows as Janeway works the holodeck controls.)
JANEWAY: I can't access the ship's systems Didn't you say this was Nazi headquarters?
SEVEN: I did.
JANEWAY: Then it would stand to reason this building is being targeted. Let's get out of here.
(They run out of the front door. A missile makes a direct hit on the building.)

[Bridge]

(Voyager rocks.)
KARR: What happened?
KIM: There was a simulated explosion on holodeck one. Somehow it blew out the hologrid across three decks.
KARR: Is the programme still running?
KIM: Yes.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

(Where the building was is now a cross-section of several decks, with energy playing around the edges.)
TUVOK: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a bunker.
(He grabs the field radio.)
CHAKOTAY: All units, listen up. We've just blown the lid off of some kind of secret Nazi compound. Converge on my position. We're going in.

[Bridge]

KIM: The breach opened the simulation into the surrounding sections. I'm picking up holographic soldiers moving into deck five.
KARR: Shut down the holo-emitters until we can regain control.
KIM: I can't. The programme controls are offline. You wanted a war? Looks like you've got one.

To Be Continued...


S4 E19
The Killing Game Part 2
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 4 March 1998

[Sainte Claire - Street]

CHAKOTAY: Move out.

[Corridor]

(Janeway and Seven shoot a pair of German soldiers.)
JANEWAY: Looks like the Hirogen have been busy. This entire section has been equipped with holo-emitters. Let's get to Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics]

(A German officer there has to cross the room for his gun. Janeway knocks him out.)
SEVEN: There are eighty five Hirogen on board, concentrated on decks two through nine.
JANEWAY: What about the bridge?
SEVEN: Four Hirogen and Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: At least he's alive. The neural interfaces. You said they're controlled through Sickbay.
SEVEN: Yes. There's only one Hirogen in Sickbay with the Doctor, but the corridors outside are heavily guarded.
JANEWAY: That's our first objective, disable the interfaces. But we'll need help.
SEVEN: We did have allies in the World War Two simulation. The French Resistance.
JANEWAY: It's time we mount a resistance of our own.

[Bridge]

KIM: The battle was concentrated here, on holodeck one, but the fighting has spilled out onto decks five and six and it looks like a group of holographic Americans is invading deck seven.
KARR: Show me the breach in the hologrid.
(The monitor behind Kim goes blank.)
KIM: I've lost the visual link. It was the last active circuit connecting the bridge to the holodecks. There's only one way to stop this. I need to go to Engineering and initiate a power surge across the holo-emitter network. It'll blow out the entire system.
KARR: No. That would destroy both the holodecks.
KIM: Look, simulation or not, if this battle keeps going we could all be killed.
KARR: I want that technology preserved.
TURANJ: Commander.
KARR: Status.
TURANJ: I was able to reach deck five but holographic forces are massing near the breach. If I'm to get into the holodeck, I'll need help.
KARR: Take the hunters from the Klingon simulation.
TURANJ: When I find Captain Janeway, should I kill her?
KARR: No. Bring her to me.
TURANJ: This is no longer a game. This hunt is real. We should kill the prey.
KARR: The Voyager crew must remain alive to make repairs, or we could lose everything. This vessel, it's technology. You said that you understood the importance of what we're doing here.
TURANJ: I'll get the hunters.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

CHAKOTAY: We think it's a secret compound the Nazi's built after they took over the city. What I don't understand is how they managed to camouflage it so well.
TUVOK: Indeed. We've been scrutinising German troop movements since the Occupation. We knew nothing of this installation.
PARIS: Don't sweat it. Our recon planes missed it too. Any idea what they're hiding in there, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: We saw all sorts of scientific equipment. Strange metals, instruments we can't identify. I've relayed the findings to Military Intelligence. They believe this could be an advanced munitions laboratory, designed to build some kind of super-weapon.
PARIS: We've got to put it out of business.
CHAKOTAY: I've already sent three squads in, but the Nazi's are putting up one hell of a fight. I've requested additional troops. Lieutenant, this restaurant will serve as our command post. Set up the transmitter and post guards around the perimeter.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: You've done a bang-up job, but we'll take it from here. Tell your people to lie low, and that the Americans said thanks.
TORRES: This is our city. We have no intention of lying low.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, honey, the time for sneaking messages back and forth is over. This is war, and you aren't soldiers.
TUVOK: He's right. We have weapons hidden throughout the city. Brigitte will tell you where they are.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds good. Lieutenant, take care of it.
(Chakotay and Tuvok leave them alone.)
PARIS: I can see you haven't changed.
TORRES: Bring me one of those street maps. Most of the guns, we stole from the German army, the explosives we bought on the black market.
PARIS: We could use both.
TORRES: Our biggest stockpile is buried here, two metres below the last row of seats of the Cinéma Mystère. You remember it, don't you?
PARIS: Hmm. I'm No Angel, with Mae West. There's heavy fighting in that area. What's the best way in?
TORRES: We dug a tunnel that leads directly to the stockpile. Here, I'll show you. Incidentally, we saw Death Takes a Holiday.
PARIS: It was the Mae West movie, I'm sure of it. She was singing Sister Honky Tonk, and I put my arm around you. And during the courtroom scene, I kissed you.
TORRES: You know, I think you're right.
PARIS: I guess the experience wasn't exactly burned into your memory.
TORRES: Not the movie, but I do remember the kiss.
PARIS: So, did you get my last letter?
TORRES: You mean the one asking me to leave France?
PARIS: Germany was about to invade. I thought you'd be safer back in the States with me. But, I guess you found someone else to take care of you.
TORRES: There's never been anybody else.
PARIS: Then who?
TORRES: He's second in command of the Sainte Claire occupation. The first time he saw me, he said I was pretty. I took advantage of his interest. He doesn't know I'm in the Resistance. The child is his.
PARIS: I'm sorry.
TORRES: So am I.
(There is a noise from behind the bar. Everyone points a gun at it. A Jefferies tube hatch opens and Janeway looks out.)
JANEWAY: Hold your fire.
TUVOK: Katrine. You survived.
JANEWAY: Are you surprised?
TUVOK: Very. Nazi headquarters was destroyed. We assumed you were killed in the explosion.
TORRES: What is that? Some kind of an escape tunnel?
SEVEN: That's precisely what it is.
CHAKOTAY: You're the leader of the local Resistance.
JANEWAY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Miller, Fifth Armoured Infantry. This is Lieutenant Davis. I take it you've seen the German bunker we uncovered?
JANEWAY: I just came from there.
CHAKOTAY: We suspect it's a munitions lab. Can you confirm that?
JANEWAY: Yes, a munitions lab.
CHAKOTAY: Then this is it. We're calling in an air strike. Contact the RAF.
JANEWAY: Hold on, Captain. There's an easier way to do this with the minimum of casualties.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hear it.
JANEWAY: I've located the generator that powers the entire complex. It's heavily guarded, but with your help I can get close enough to set off some explosives.
CHAKOTAY: My orders are to blow the entire compound before the Germans send in reinforcements.
JANEWAY: I saw technology in there you can't begin to imagine. Warheads powerful enough to destroy this entire valley if they're accidentally detonated. Call for an air strike, it may be the last call you make.
CHAKOTAY: How can you get close enough?
JANEWAY: This tunnel. I've been watching this compound for several months, and I've got a man inside.
PARIS: The place is crawling with Krauts.
JANEWAY: Yhat's why I need your help. If your men can clear these two corridors it'll give us access to this entryway. Get me there, and I can take care of the rest.
CHAKOTAY: C Company, what's there status?
PARIS: They're holding position about two hundred yards from here.
CHAKOTAY: Get them on the horn. You'll lead us into the compound, but I'm coming with you.
JANEWAY: I work better alone.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a request, it's an order.
JANEWAY: Order? Do I look like I'm wearing one of your uniforms? I go alone.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you needed our help. I'll be right behind you.
(The men leave Janeway and Seven alone. Janeway packs a rucksack.)
JANEWAY: Even if I manage to disrupt the neural interfaces, we've still got a war to fight. We're going to need something a lot more effective than these old firearms.
SEVEN: I believe I can enhance these weapons using Borg technology, but I'll have to access Cargo Bay two.
JANEWAY: If something goes wrong and I don't succeed, you'll be the only one left who knows what's really going on.
SEVEN: Understood.
(Janeway walks away from the bar and is confronted by Tuvok.)
TUVOK: Have our suspicions been confirmed?
JANEWAY: Suspicions?
TUVOK: Is she a collaborator?
JANEWAY: I think we can trust her.
TUVOK: Are you certain? Three hours ago you were prepared to put a bullet in her head.
JANEWAY: She's on our side.
TUVOK: In your absence, I may be forced to make that determination for myself.
JANEWAY: I've already made it. You're not to harm her. Is that understood?
(Gunfire shatters a window.)
TUVOK: German forces are advancing on our position.
CHAKOTAY: Let's give them a warm welcome. Mademoiselle, after you.
(Janeway and Chakotay enter the Jefferies tube.)

[Sickbay]

(A crewman is lying on a biobed.)
EMH: Punctured lung, arterial rupture, fracture of the thirteenth vertebra. He needs surgery.
(An Hirogen Nazi is brought in.)
MEDIC: First and second degree burns to the face and neck. Treat him.
EMH: His injuries are minor. He can wait.
MEDIC: I said treat him.
EMH: This man has massive internal injuries. If I don't operate now, he'll die.
MEDIC: Treat the burns, or I'll deactivate your programme.
EMH: What kind of physician are you? The first rule of triage states that the critical injuries take priority.
MEDIC: You're rules, not mine.
(He deactivates the EMH.)
MEDIC: From now on, leave the wounded prey where they fall. Tend only to our own.

[Holodeck two - Klingon programme]

(A trio of Klingons are getting drunk.)
NEELIX: I'm as dry as the crater at Tarpahk. In the middle of the dry season. When it's dry!
KLINGON: No! I'm not done!
NEELIX: Share with your brothers. It's the eve of battle. I may be drunk, but I can still send your soul to the next world and leave your body here to rot. Though from the stench of it, I'd say it's begun to already.
(The Klingon passes out.)

[Corridor]

(Machinegun fire nearby. A holographic Nazi aims his weapon at Kim, and gets shot by -)
KIM: Tom!
PARIS: Wrong guy. You speak English?
KIM: Yeah. I speak English.
PARIS: American?
KIM: I didn't see him coming. You saved my life.
PARIS: Why are you out of uniform? What Company are you with?
KIM: Well, er, I'm a civilian.
PARIS: In the middle of a battle zone in France? The hell you are.
(More gunfire. The GI with Paris moves forward.)
PARIS: Go one, I'm right behind you. Look, I don't have time for twenty questions. You say you're an American? All right then. If Betty Grable came around that corner, what part of her would you be staring at? Sorry. Time's up.
KIM: Her legs! I'd be staring at her legs.
PARIS: Bull's-eye. Lucky for you.
(Paris moves on.)

[Jefferies tube]

CHAKOTAY: You're a gung-ho kind of gal, aren't ya?
JANEWAY: Does that bother you?
CHAKOTAY: Nope. Just not used to it, that's all. The girls back home are a little different.
JANEWAY: I guess when it comes to my people's safety, this girl tends to get a little gung-ho.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing to apologise for. I'm the same way with my men. There's not a day goes by when I don't think to myself, I'm going to get 'em back safely, even if I die trying.
JANEWAY: I know the feeling. We're about to enter some caves that run under the town.
CHAKOTAY: Caves?
JANEWAY: We're going to meet our contact there. I should warn you. There are eccentric people who live in the caves, but don't be alarmed.

[Holodeck two - Klingon programme]

(A drinking song is being mangled.)
JANEWAY: Good evening, gentlemen.
NEELIX: Who are you? How did you get past our battle lines?
JANEWAY: We're friends, allies.
NEELIX: Sent by what house?
JANEWAY: The house of K'toh-maag.
NEELIX: K'toh-maag. I never heard of it.
JANEWAY: I'm not surprised. It's a long way from here.
NEELIX: This battle doesn't concern you.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But we'd be honoured to fight alongside such great warriors. If you prefer, we'll take our weapons elsewhere.
NEELIX: Wait! I'll consider your request. But first, prove your fortitude. Drink! SanRoh t'patoh Cha!
(The skin of bloodwine is thrown to Chakotay.)
CHAKOTAY: I guess my French is a little rusty.
JANEWAY: Don't drink it. It's twice as strong as whisky. I'll be right back.
(Janeway takes the rucksack and leaves them to find a computer interface.)
NEELIX [OC]: Prove your fortitude, warrior. Drink!
EMH: Captain. Is, is it you?
JANEWAY: Yes. We've got to disable the rest of those interfaces.
EMH: The controls are routed through the surgical console in Sickbay, but it will take time to disable all of them.
JANEWAY: We don't have time. I'll access the Jefferies tube that runs under that deck plate, set a few charges and blow out the console.
EMH: Charges? The Hirogen have seized the armoury.
JANEWAY: No problem. I've got all the ammo I need right here.
EMH: Holographic explosives?
JANEWAY: With the safety protocols offline, they're as good as the real thing.
(They return to the Klingons.)
NEELIX: Another of your warriors?
JANEWAY: Yes.
NEELIX: He's a frail looking thing.
JANEWAY: I'll contact you when I've disabled the rest of the interfaces. In the meantime, stay here.
EMH: With the Klingons?
JANEWAY: Believe me, it's peaceful compared to Sainte Claire. Captain.
NEELIX: Ha!
(Klingon Neelix slaps the EMH on the back.)
EMH: Please, don't do that.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

PARIS: They've got us outnumbered.
TORRES: And outgunned. They're setting up a machine gun emplacement across the street.
TUVOK: Where have you been?
(Seven crawls out of the Jefferies tube.)
SEVEN: Obtaining supplies.
TUVOK: What is this?
SEVEN: German technology taken from their compound. I can use them to enhance our weapons.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

TURANJ: I've cornered several Voyager crewmen. They've taken refuge in a guarded building. I need three nucleonic charges to penetrate the structure.

[Bridge]

KARR: Nucleonic charges could damage the holodeck further. Use your hand weapons.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

TURANJ: Then I'll need more hunters.
KARR [OC]: They're on the way.

[Jefferies tube]

JANEWAY: Damn, there's a level nine forcefield around the surgical console. We'll have to go in and shut it down.
CHAKOTAY: Forcefield?
JANEWAY: I'll explain later. Set the detonator for five minutes.

[Doctor's office]

MEDIC: Five hunters have been killed in the last hour. You must engage the safety protocols.
KARR [on monitor]: Those protocols aren't functioning.
MEDIC: Then I'll need assistance to
(He hears a hatch opening.)
MEDIC: Stand by.

[Sickbay]

MEDIC: You.
JANEWAY: Get him out of here.
CHAKOTAY: There are ten pounds of dynamite under the floor set to blow in less than three minutes. Move.
(Chakotay escorts the Medic out at gunpoint. Janeway uses the desk computer in the office to access Auxilliary Systems 0470. Sickbay Security Field Authorized Access Only.)

[Bridge]

KARR: Bridge to Sickbay. Sickbay, respond. Bridge to deck five. Converge on the Sickbay.
(Janeway disables the Sickbay Security Field. Chakotay shoots at a pair of Hirogen who come around the corner outside, and the Medic overpowers him. He enters Sickbay and shoots Janeway in the leg. She runs out through the Medical lab and he goes to his computer. Access denied. KaBOOM! The Sickbay doors are blown out.)

[Le Coeur de Lion]

(Paris and Torres grab the back of their necks in pain. Tuvok likewise.)
SEVEN: We are on the holodeck under attack. You must
(The Kapitan enters with Hirogens. The Resistance and their allies are taken prisoner.)
TURANJ: Bridge, this is holodeck one. I have seized the building, and I have found another access to this holodeck.

[Ready room]

KARR: Seal it. How many captives?

[Le Coeur de Lion]

TURANJ: Four. Their neural interfaces have been disabled. I will make the kill.
KARR [OC]: No.

[Ready room]

KARR: They are not prey, they are hostages. I'll need them.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

TURANJ: As you wish. You, help me seal this hatch.
PARIS: What do you think? A boy or a girl?
SEVEN: It's a holographic projection.
TORRES: Unfortunately, it's a very good projection. I feel twenty kilos heavier. It even kicks.
TUVOK: I don't recognise this programme.
PARIS: I do. He's wearing a Nazi uniform. We're on Earth during the Second World War.
SEVEN: Nazi?
PARIS: Totalitarian fanatics bent on world conquest. The Borg of their day. No offence.
SEVEN: None taken.
TORRES: What are you staring at?
KAPITAN: Get up. You deceived me.
TORRES: Really?
KAPITAN: I should've seen through your flirtations.
TORRES: If you say so.
KAPITAN: The thought of you carrying my child disgusts me.
TORRES: You're not the only one.
(The Kapitan slaps Torres. Paris rises to protect her.)
PARIS: Look, I don't know what went on between the two of you, but it's obviously over now.
KAPITAN: I see you're acquainted. Do you find her as attractive as I once did? I'll miss our nights together.
PARIS: Pig!
(The Kapitan aims his gun at Paris.)
TURANJ: Put the weapon away. Now.
(He obeys and walks away.)
PARIS: Funny, he doesn't seem like your type.

[Holodeck two - Klingon programme]

NEELIX: Doctor, trouble.
EMH: Now what?
NEELIX: The Klingons are starting to wake up from their nap.
EMH: All right, all right, hold on.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
EMH: I've established an interface with holodeck one. I want to monitor what's going on over there in case the crew needs my help.
KLINGON: Qapla'!
NEELIX: Uh-oh. What should we do?
EMH: Not having a cure for Klingon hangovers, I couldn't tell you.
KLINGON: The battle has begun. Our plan is to penetrate the enemy's position, cut his forces in half.
NEELIX: And a very good plan it is. Best of luck with it.
KLINGON: You will lead us into battle, Great Warrior.
(He throws a bat'leth to Neelix.)
NEELIX: Maybe I'll just watch from here. Try to offer up some pointers as things develop.
KLINGON: Sto'Kar! Lead the attack or die here by my hand.
EMH: You heard him. Don't argue with the man, run along! I'll reattach any severed limbs. Just don't misplace them.
KLINGON: You! Cover our flank!
(He gives the EMH a d'k tahg dagger.)
KLINGON: Qapla'!
NEELIX: Qapla'.
EMH: Tally-ho.

[Ready room]

KARR: Enter. Leave her.
JANEWAY: I see you've done some redecorating.
KARR: Your attempt to retake this vessel was inventive. From the day I seized Voyager, you put up a dauntless fight. But your fight is over now. You're going to help me shut down these simulations and repair the holodecks.
JANEWAY: No. We'll destroy this ship before we surrender it.
KARR: Don't threaten me, Captain. I've faced far more intimidating prey than you. If this fight continues, I promise you I will hunt down and kill every member of your crew.
JANEWAY: Well, by then this ship will be damaged beyond repair and there won't be much of a trophy left, will there?
KARR: Perhaps I should kill you and find someone who will cooperate.
JANEWAY: Good luck. You'll get the same response from all of them.
KARR: You don't realise what's at stake.
JANEWAY: I know what's at stake. Your sick little game.
KARR: This is not a game!
JANEWAY: Then what is it?
KARR: I'm trying to create a future for my people.
JANEWAY: Future?
KARR: I don't expect you to understand. You are prey.
JANEWAY: You underestimate us.
KARR: Yes, perhaps I do.
JANEWAY: I'm listening
KARR: My people are hunting themselves into extinction. Your holodeck technology might offer us an alternative, a new way of life. Instead of scattering ourselves across the quadrant in pursuit of prey, we could simulate the hunt and give ourselves a chance to rebuild our civilisation.
JANEWAY: And confine your killing to holograms?
KARR: With the safety protocols offline, the pursuit is just as challenging.
JANEWAY: Oh, I understand what you're trying to do, but then why have you been torturing us? Why have you thrown my crew into one brutal simulation after another?
KARR: I've been studying your behaviour, as I do with all my prey. But your holodecks allowed me to go further, to explore your culture, your history. I must admit, I've learned a great deal.
JANEWAY: How so?
KARR: Your people have faced extinction many times, but you've always managed to avoid it. You seem to recognise the need for change.
JANEWAY: Yes. You've got one of those moments running right now on the holodeck. We called it World War Two.
KARR: One of your most difficult eras. And yet you survived.
JANEWAY: It wasn't easy.
KARR: You are a resilient species. I admire your cunning.
JANEWAY: Let's end this. I'll call a ceasefire and we can try to contain the damage. I want my ship back, but in return I will give you what you need to create the holodeck technology. It would be cunning for you to agree.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

(Turanj pours himself a glass of wine.)
TURANJ: Synthetic, and undrinkable. I am tired of this simulation.
KAPITAN: Mein Herr, a word with you.
TURANJ: And these holograms are becoming annoying as well.
KAPITAN: What are we waiting for? Why don't we execute these prisoners?
TURANJ: Orders from the Kommandant.
KAPITAN: If I may speak freely. The Kommandant has been acting strangely the past few days. He's been questioning German superiority. Perhaps we shouldn't follow his orders so blindly.
TURANJ: You will do as he says, as long as I tell you to.
KAPITAN: I don't know how much longer I can stand being trapped in here.
TURANJ: Perhaps you would enjoy some entertainment. Sing.
SEVEN: I will not.
TURANJ: Sing or you will die.
SEVEN: Then I'll die.
TUVOK: Seven, you are a valued member of this crew. The logical response would be to grant his request.
SEVEN: Logic is irrelevant. One day the Borg will assimilate your species despite your arrogance. When that moment arrives, remember me.
KARR [OC]: Bridge to holodeck one.
TURANJ: Yes.

[Bridge]

KARR: I've come to an agreement with Captain Janeway. Call a ceasefire.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

TURANJ: What?
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY [OC]: It's true, Tuvok.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Our first order of business is to call off the troops. I want you to find Chakotay

[Le Coeur de Lion]

JANEWAY [OC]: And have him convince his soldiers to pull out of the city.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
KARR [OC]: Turanj

[Bridge]

KARR: Order our hunters to end the fighting.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

KAPITAN: This is madness. We're winning this battle.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

KARR [OC]: Our civilisation depends on this agreement.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

TURANJ: Acknowledged. You heard him, release the captives. I'll tell the others. Order all units to withdraw to these positions
KAPITAN: I have always thought highly of you.
TURANJ: Have you?
KAPITAN: Yes. But the Kommandant is a fool. He doesn't understand. He's never embraced the Fuhrer or his vision. One does not cooperate with decadent forms of life. One hunts them down and eliminates them. The Kommandant speaks of civilisation. The ancient Romans were civilised. The Jews are civilised. But in all its moral decay, Rome fell to the spears of our ancestors, as the Jews are falling now. Look at our destiny. (the flag behind the bar) The field of red, the purity of German blood. The blazing white circle of the sun that sanctified that blood. No one can deny us, no power on Earth or beyond. Not the Christian Saviour, not the God of the Jews. We are driven by the very force that gives life to the universe itself. We must countermand the Kommandant's orders, stay and fight. We must be faithful to who we are.
TURANJ: You two, follow me.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

(Chakotay uses the field radio.)
CHAKOTAY: All units, clear the valley. Return to your previous positions. We're calling a ceasefire. Repeat, cease fire. Well, the word is out.
TUVOK: Whether it will be acted upon is another question.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, they'll follow orders. I'm their commanding officer, remember?
PARIS: Keep it moving! Keep it moving! Get the lead out of your pants!
SEVEN: Mid-twentieth century American slang.
PARIS: You got a problem with that, sister?
SEVEN: You're enjoying this simulation. I find that peculiar, given the circumstances.
PARIS: Loosen up, baby doll, the war's almost over.
(Gunfire.)
TORRES: So much for the ceasefire.
KAPITAN: Fire! Fire!

[Holodeck two - Klingon programme]

EMH: I've been monitoring the other simulation, and the fighting's getting worse. The crew is taking heavy casualties.
NEELIX: How can we help?
EMH: I'll transfer my programme to holodeck one. You take the Jefferies tube and meet me there.
NEELIX: There's only the two of us.
EMH: Nevertheless we have to try and. Even half drunk, Klingons are among the best warriors in the galaxy.
NEELIX: But they're already in the middle of a war with the house of whatever it is.
EMH: Then you'll just have to convince them that there's a more important battle to be waged.
NEELIX: Me?
EMH: You are their Great Warrior. Lead them.
NEELIX: Pardon me, gentlemen. I wonder if I might have a word with you.
EMH: They're Klingons, not kittens.
(Neelix snatches the leg of meat from one Klingon's hand and throws it in the campfire..)
NEELIX: You will listen!

[Holodeck lab]

JANEWAY: These sensors indicate you've placed holo-emitters on decks five through twelve? No wonder the system breached. You've turned Voyager into one big holodeck.
KARR: Can you shut it down?
JANEWAY: Yes, but I'm going to have to initiate an overload. We'll worry about making repairs later. Right now we've got to put an end to those simulations. Janeway to Ensign Kim.

[Bridge]

KIM: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: Harry, I'm going to need your help overloading the holo-emitter network.

[Holodeck lab]

JANEWAY: I'm transferring optical processor control to you now. Start charging the secondary power relays.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: We'll use them to trigger the overload.
KIM: I'm on it.

[Holodeck lab]

JANEWAY: It's going to take some time. There are over eight hundred emitters that we have to
(Turanj enters, armed with a rifle.)
TURANJ: Move away from the controls.
KARR: Why haven't you ordered the ceasefire?
(Turanj shoots his Alpha in the shoulder.)
TURANJ: Move away from the controls.
KARR: Listen to me.
TURANJ: No!
(And shoots Karr again. He dies.)
JANEWAY: What are you waiting for?
TURANJ: I am a hunter. You are my prey. Run.
(Janeway runs into the corridor. Turanj follows.)

[Sainte Claire - Street]

CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Out. Our holographic allies are losing ground. The German troops are surrounding the city.
PARIS: I don't know how much longer we can hold them off. These weapons are pretty crude. They're not much help.
TORRES: Maybe we should fall back?
CHAKOTAY: Where to? They're coming in from all sides. Tuvok, any chance we can get through that breach in the hologrid.
TUVOK: Unlikely. Twenty more Hirogen have taken up position near the opening. We are outnumbered.
CHAKOTAY: How's it going?
SEVEN: I'm modifying this explosive device to emit a photonic burst. It will be harmless to organic tissue but it should disrupt all holographic activity within twenty metres.
CHAKOTAY: We'll try to buy you some time.
(Janeway gets into the Jefferies tube network before Turanj catches up with her. He doubles back, feels the hatch, then opens it.)

[Bridge]

HIROGEN: I'll be in Sickbay.
(Kim is left unsupervised. He does his bit on Auxilliary Systems 0470. Charging Holo-Emitters. Holo-Emitter Overload Initiated. The countdown starts at 9 minutes.)

[Sainte Claire - Street]

NAZI: Schnell! Schell!
CHAKOTAY: They're closing in. Seven!  
(Seven pulls the pin on her modified grenade, stands to throw it and gets shot. A GI tries to get to it, then it goes off and he disappears, along with the weapons. The Nazi's weren't close enough.)
KAPITAN: Surrender.
(Janeway limps to a place where a holographic soldier no longer has any legs. She drags him back and they reappear, and she carries on. Meanwhile, Seven is helped to her feet. Real life thunder rumbles overhead.)
KAPITAN: Verdamt. Bring that one to me. I will spare your life for now, but only because you are carrying a German child.

[Corridor]

(Turanj hears a noise and turns down a side corridor. Janeway is in the shadows, behind fallen debris. Turanj stands near the fallen soldier.)
JANEWAY: Please don't do this. I can be of use to you. I can help you repair the ship. Don't kill me.
(Turanj steps forward. His rifle starts to disappear, he looks down and she hits him with a metal pipe. Then she picks up the rifle and he runs away.)

[Sainte Claire - Street]

(A firing squad is formed.)
KAPITAN: Against the wall. Your deaths will serve the glory of the Reich. Prepare to fire.
(A swarm of Klingons burst through the barricade. The Nazi soldiers go to meet them. Turanj looks down on the melee.)
NEELIX: Fight on, warriors! This way!
EMH: Qapla', gentlemen. Qapla'!
(Neelix and the EMH stay under a cafe awning as the rain pours. The Kapitan knocks down Paris, then a Klingon kills him.)

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: This hunt is over. Tell your hunters to stand down. I'll use this if you force me to.
(Turanj steps forward. Janeway shoots him and he falls backwards into the holodeck, down three decks. Seven seconds to holo-emitter overload.)

[Sainte Claire - Street]

(All the holographics characters vanish.)
CHAKOTAY: It's over. Let's go.

Captain's log, stardate 51715.2. The damage to Voyager has been extreme. Both sides have taken heavy casualties, and it's clear that no one is going to win this conflict. The fighting has reached a standstill and the remaining Hirogen have agreed to negotiate a truce.

[Cargo Bay two]

YOUNG HIROGEN: What is this?
JANEWAY: An optronic datacore. You can use it to create holodeck technology on your own vessels. I made a promise with your leader before he died, that I would give this knowledge to the Hirogen. Take it.
YOUNG HIROGEN: His ideas were unconventional. I do not share them.
JANEWAY: Was he any more unconventional than you are? Calling a ceasefire with your prey? Only a few days ago, the thought of speaking with us on equal terms would've been inconceivable, but here we are. Accept this trophy. You can use it to create a new future for your people. At the very least, you can hang it on your bulkhead.
(She hands it to him, and he bows his head briefly. Janeway returns the gesture and the Hirogen leave Voyager to sail on alone.)


S4 E20
Vis A Vis
Stardate: 51762.4
Original Airdate: 8 April 1998

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey programme]
(Paris is working underneath a car in a large garage whilst 60s rock music plays. Night Rider by Dick Dale, I'm told. The EMH appears and sounds the car's horn several times.)
PARIS: Ow! Ow! What do you think you're doing, Doc?
EMH: An impromptu auditory exam.
PARIS: Did I pass?
EMH: With flying colours, which leads me to believe you did hear me when I requested you meet me this morning.
(Paris turns off the transistor radio.)
PARIS: You're right. I forgot.
EMH: I see. I realise your Sickbay training is purely voluntary, but you haven't spent any time there in several weeks. And when I try to find you, you're always in the holodeck.
PARIS: Correct me if I'm wrong, Doc, but we haven't been treating anything more serious than an ingrown toenail.
EMH: That's beside the point. If an emergency were to happen you must be prepared. You're too far behind in your medical texts to be wasting your time in the holodeck.
PARIS: If it's any consolation, I have spent most of the morning immersed in a complicated surgical procedure.
EMH: Really.
PARIS: A classic case of atrophied shocks. They needed to be extracted to prevent chrome abrasion. It was touch and go for a while, but the prognosis is excellent.
EMH: You'll be ready for neurosurgery in no time.
PARIS: Take a look at this, Doc. This is a fully stock 1969 Chevy Camaro, one of the earliest muscle cars ever made.
(Paris gets into the driver's seat.)
PARIS: Imagine, Northern California, late twentieth century. You're cruising up Highway One, the woofers are pounding, the wind is whipping through your hair.
EMH: Medieval safety constraints, internal combustion system producing lethal levels of carbon monoxide. Hmm. I stand corrected. This may be just what you need to get you back to Sickbay.
PARIS: I guess I should have known this wouldn't interest you. It's too much fun.
EMH: This isn't about fun, Mister Paris. Serving in Sickbay is a privilege. I'd expect you to realise that.
PARIS: Oh, I do. I'll be there. Soon.
JANEWAY [OC]: Lieutenant Paris, report to the bridge immediately.
PARIS: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]

(Paris enters, still in his dirty overalls.)
PARIS: Somebody call for a driver?
JANEWAY: Take your station, Tom. Anything on scans, Harry?
KIM: I'm picking up another spatial disturbance two thousand kilometres away.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: I have no idea. It looks like space is folding in on itself.
JANEWAY: Shields to full.
(A small spaceship appears.)
KIM: It's an alien vessel, one occupant aboard.
PARIS: Captain, it looks like that ship is being powered by a coaxial warp drive.
CHAKOTAY: Coaxial what?
PARIS: It's a hypothetical propulsion system. Starfleet engineers have been dreaming about it for years. In theory, it can literally fold the fabric of space allowing a ship to travel instantaneously across huge distances.
(Whumph! Energy plays over the alien ship.)
TUVOK: The alien warp drive is overloading.
PARIS: In theory, a coaxial drive explosion could collapse space within a radius of a billion kilometres. In theory.
JANEWAY: Let's keep theory from becoming reality. Red alert!
CHAKOTAY: Scan the vessel. Can we beam the pilot out?
KIM: Too much interference.
PARIS: That ship's about had it, Captain. The coaxial core is breaching.
TUVOK: We should vacant this area of space at once.
PARIS: We can't just leave him like this.
JANEWAY: Try one more hail.
KIM: Nothing. Maybe he's ignoring us.
PARIS: Or maybe he's unconscious. We've got to do something.
JANEWAY: Suggestions?
PARIS: A symmetric warp field. That should contain any instabilities in his space-folding core.
CHAKOTAY: How can you be sure?
PARIS: Advanced subspace geometry. It's the one course at the academy where I actually paid attention. We'll tractor him in to kill his momentum, generate a warp field around his ship.
TUVOK: His flightpath is erratic. We'd be risking collision.
PARIS: Captain, I can make this work.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Passing through the residual folds in space. Steady. Got him!
TUVOK: I've extended our warp field around his vessel. His core is powering down.
JANEWAY: Nice flying, Tom.
PARIS: My pleasure.
KIM: We're finally receiving a hail.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway, of the Federation Starship Voyager. Do you need medical attention?
(A humanoid with an elaborate nose to forehead structure, with a pair of nostrils at the top as well as bottom.)
STETH [on viewscreen]: I'm fine, Captain. Unfortunately my ship is not.
JANEWAY: If you need to make repairs, we might be able to help.
STETH [on viewscreen]: That's very generous.
JANEWAY: We'll beam you aboard in a few minutes. Stand by.
STETH [on viewscreen]: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Energise.
(Steth is beamed aboard.)
JANEWAY: Welcome.
STETH: Captain, I know you put yourselves in danger to rescue me. I want to thank you.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we could help.
STETH: I was so eager to test my new engine, I pushed it beyond it's limits.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Coaxial warp doesn't seem to be the smoothest way to travel.
STETH: It's a violent procedure, but it allows a ship to travel through space at incredible speeds.
TUVOK: Considering the dangers, this method of travel hardly seems logical.
STETH: That's probably true, but if I were worrying about danger I wouldn't have become a test pilot.
JANEWAY: Where are you from?
STETH: The fourth planet of the Benthan system. That's about twenty light years from here.
JANEWAY: I'll speak to my engineers about helping you with repairs. Without your coaxial drive, it's a long way home.

[Chakotay's office]

CHAKOTAY: Come in.
PARIS: I'd like to ask you a favour. I need a change of pace. I'd like to help Steth repair his ship.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a good time to ask.
PARIS: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I've been reading a report from the Doctor. You didn't show up today.
PARIS: I was a little busy this morning. Saving someone's life, as I recall.
CHAKOTAY: Is there something wrong, Tom? Anything bothering you?
PARIS: Nothing is wrong. Since when is not wanting to spend time with the Doctor a capital offence? You'd have to throw the whole crew in the brig for that one.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. I was wondering if there's something on your mind. You're showing up for your duty shifts, you do what's required, but your heart doesn't seem to be in it. You seem preoccupied.
PARIS: Like I said, I think I need a change of pace.
CHAKOTAY: You're a different man from the one that came on board four years ago. You've taken charge of your life, turned yourself around. I'd hate to see you ruin it.
PARIS: I won't. With your permission, I'll report to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Permission denied. Report to Steth's ship instead. Assist in the repairs. We need our best man on the job.

[Steth's ship]

STETH: And on my way back, I made the mistake of flying the prototype through restricted Entaban territory.
PARIS: And?
STETH: And the Entabans weren't too pleased to see me. I limped back to the engineers on Benthos with phaser holes through their brand new extanium fuselage. I think they would have been happy to see phaser holes through me.
PARIS: When I was sixteen, I followed an ancient human custom. I took my father's shuttle out for a joy ride, and proceeded to fry all the relays.
(Benind his back, Steth turns into a woman, then back to a man again.)
STETH: I'm guessing he wasn't happy about getting it back.
PARIS: Actually he didn't. As far as I know, it's still at the bottom of Lake Tahoe.
STETH: Here it is, the coaxial induction drive. It draws in subatomic particles and reconfigures their internal geometries.
PARIS: And this is what makes folding space possible?
STETH: At least in spurts. Unfortunately, particle instabilities keep overloading my engines. But I'm going to make it work. I have to keep in motion. I don't like the thought of settling down. Too many new ships to drive. Too many intriguing women.
PARIS: Yeah, I guess so.
STETH: When I get this ship back I'm going to be doing the first test on a new Mithran class flyer. I'm told it's more advanced than any warship in the quadrant. Why don't you come with me? We'd have a great time. You could meet up with Voyager afterwards.
PARIS: I'd love to do that. It sounds very exciting. But I have responsibilities here. People who count on me. B'Elanna would be furious. B'Elanna. I have to go.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: So, you started without me.
TORRES: I finished without you. You're a little late.
PARIS: Sorry. I was helping Steth repair his ship.
TORRES: How's it going?
PARIS: Pretty slow. We're both stuck on how to prevent the particle overloads in his propulsion system.
TORRES: Have you tried an isokinetic containment field?
PARIS: Yeah, that's the first thing we tried.
TORRES: How long do you think repairs are going to take?
PARIS: I don't know.
TORRES: I was just hoping that maybe you could help me recalibrate the plasma manifolds tonight.
PARIS: Ah. I, er, I probably should go help Steth.
TORRES: Tom, is there something wrong?
PARIS: Why are you interrogating me?
TORRES: I didn't think I was.
PARIS: It sounds more like you want me to account for every minute that I'm not with you.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
PARIS: Can't I have some time to myself? Can't I do what I want without having to report every detail of it to you?
TORRES: Tom, you can do whatever you want. I just wanted to know if there was something wrong. I mean, lately you've been cancelling dates. You hide out for hours in the holodeck.
PARIS: I am not hiding anything. That is ridiculous.
TORRES: Is it? You haven't even told me what holodeck programme this is that has you so fascinated.
PARIS: The Dancing Girls of Ninipia Prime. It's very entertaining,
TORRES: Very funny.
PARIS: You're overreacting.
TORRES: I am not overreacting. There's obviously something going on and you're refusing to admit it.
NEELIX: Good evening, Lieutenants. I see you don't have your dinner yet, Tom. Can I get you something?
PARIS: I'm really not hungry.
TORRES: Excuse me. Are you going to talk about this? Because if you're not, I don't want to sit here anymore.
PARIS: If you can carry on an adult conversation without all the histrionics
TORRES: Good night, Tom.

[Steth's ship]

(Steth goes through several changes before getting back to where he started.)
STETH: Computer, run a DNA stability analysis. How long before my genome reverts to it's previous form?
COMPUTER: Time to reversion three hours thirteen minutes. Complete genome recovery is imminent.

[Corridor]

PARIS: So I was lying in bed last night when it hit me. What you need is a carburettor.
STETH: A carburettor?
PARIS: Yes. It's a device that's hundreds of years old. I can't believe I didn't think of it yesterday.
STETH: Wait. Hundreds of years old? Surely that couldn't be of any use to us now.
PARIS: It all goes back to basics. You would be surprised at how often I find solutions to twenty fourth century problems in twentieth century technology. Computer, access Paris programme alpha one, Grease Monkey.
STETH: Grease Monkey?
PARIS: Mechanic lingo.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey programme]

(Paris has taken the carburetter from his Camaro.)
PARIS: A car's engine can't run on pure fuel, so the carburettor supplies it with a mixture of vaporised fuel and air.
STETH: And you think we need a device like that to dilute the particle stream as it enters the coaxial drive.
PARIS: Exactly! And a spare polaric modulator from Voyager's impulse drive should do the trick.
STETH: Subatomic dilution! It never would have occurred to me. I think you've solved it.
PARIS: Well, we can run a few simulations on the holodeck before we actually try it.
STETH: I owe you a lot.
PARIS: You can thank my lucky toolbox. It's gotten me out of hot water more than once.
STETH: You're lucky to be stationed on a ship like this. Replicators to feed and clothe you, holotechnology to cater to every whim. Hallways filled with women.
PARIS: Yeah. It's great.
STETH: You don't sound convinced. Aren't you happy here?
PARIS: Of course I'm happy. I'm very happy. I mean, I pilot one of the most advanced ships in Starfleet, I have a beautiful girlfriend, I'm respected. I have everything that I've ever wanted.
STETH: You're lucky, You're part of a family, part of a structure. You have rules to guide you. You don't have to worry about making a lot of choices. I usually go to bed at night not knowing what the next day has in store, what trouble I might get into. You don't have to worry about those things. You're very settled.
PARIS: I remember those days. I used to be a lot like you. Going anywhere, doing whatever I wanted, making my own rules.
(Paris refits the carburetter. Steth becomes female behind his back, but the voice stays the same.)
STETH: Well, then there's hope for me yet, Maybe someday I'll settle down too. But for now I prefer to stay on the move.
PARIS: Sometimes I wish that's what I was doing.  
(Paris stands, and Steth is back to male.)
STETH: Things'll turn around for you. I've always found that change is inevitable. It comes when you least expect it.
PARIS: Yeah, I suppose.
STETH: Now, are we ready to try this carburettor idea on my ship?
PARIS: Just give me five more minutes to finish up here and I'll be right with you.
STETH: Five minutes. And Tom? Don't dismiss the suggestion I made, about coming with me to fly the new ship. It might be fun to escape the shackles for a while.
PARIS: Hmm.
(He discovers that there is a tool missing from his lucky tool box.)

[Cargo Bay two]

STETH: Computer, access all files pertaining to Lieutenant Tom Paris. Download into memory core alpha.
COMPUTER: Please enter authorisation code.
(Steth waves his PADD across the console.)
COMPUTER: Access granted. Commencing download.
(Seven enters.)
STETH: Hello. I'm Steth, a guest of your captain.
SEVEN: I have been appraised of your presence on Voyager. You are not authorised to access the ship's computers.
STETH: You must be Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: That is correct.
STETH: Tom mentioned you. He thinks you're extremely intelligent.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris' opinion of me is irrelevant to your being in this room.
STETH: Well, er, Tom felt we needed some files for polaric modulators, but he was called away before we could access them. I thought I'd find them myself and help out.
SEVEN: You were mistaken. He must be present to download these files.
(Seven is about to tap her comm. badge.)
STETH: Oh, I'm about to meet him at the holodeck. We can find the files there.
SEVEN: Voyager's hierarchy is complex. See that you familiarise yourself with it.
STETH: Good advice. I'll do that.

Captain's log, stardate 51762.4. The repairs to Steth's coaxial drive have been completed well ahead of schedule.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS: Everything here looks good. Just give me one more second to check the flow field parameters.
STETH: Go ahead.
(Paris packs up his Starfleet tool kits then finds his missing tool on a console.)
PARIS: It's my box wrench. I've been looking all over for this.
STETH: I know I should have asked you, Tom, but I needed it for an experiment.
PARIS: To check your new carburettor?
STETH: Not quite. You're the first humans I've met and that wrench had enough cellular residue on it for me to check your DNA. I have good news. We're compatible.
(Steth grabs Paris by the throat. His eyes roll back then he transforms into Paris, as Paris transforms into him.)
STETH/PARIS: Consider this a favour. I know how unhappy you've been with this dreary, settled life so I'm taking it off your hands. I'm betting there's still some fun to be had here. Voyager is a great ship, Tom. I'll take good care of it.
(He shoots Paris/Steth.)

[Bridge]

STETH/PARIS: Sorry I'm late.
JANEWAY: We were beginning to wonder if you were ever coming back.
KIM: His ship is powering engines.
(Steth wanders the bridge, then watches the little ship fly away on the viewscreen.)
JANEWAY: Something wrong, Tom?
STETH/PARIS: It's nothing.
(He takes over from Ayala at the helm.)
STETH/PARIS: I'm just really going to miss that guy.

[Mess hall]

CHAKOTAY: Mind if I join you?
STETH/PARIS: Not at all. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay will do, Tom. You don't carry this rules thing too far. I've been discussing your engineering report with the captain. She was wondering if we could implement some of Steth's technology here on Voyager.
STETH/PARIS: Really?
CHAKOTAY: We thought maybe you could start on a shuttle. Do you think you can do it?
STETH as PARIS: I'm sure I can.
CHAKOTAY: Great. You can start right after you finish with the Doctor.
STETH/PARIS: The Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: He needs your help in Sickbay. I told him you'd be there.
STETH/PARIS: Of course.

[Corridor]

CREWMAN: Lieutenant.
STETH/PARIS: Hi.
(Steth uses a PADD to find his way around, and checks the signage on every door. When he sees Seven, he doubles back and looks at the Voyager schematic on the wall panel.)
KIM: I know you've been avoiding the Doctor, but don't tell me you've forgotten where Sickbay is?
STETH/PARIS: Oh! Not yet. I was just trying to figure out if there's a more efficient route between Sickbay and my quarters.
KIM: I didn't realise you were that eager to get there. So tell me, are they ready yet?
STETH/PARIS: Ah, not yet. But they will be, soon.
KIM: Great. Hey, let me know if you have any problems. Polyduranide can be tough to replicate.
STETH/PARIS: Oh, sure can be.
KIM: I can't wait to get my hands around one of those clubs. Ensign Kaplan won't know what hit her.
STETH/PARIS: What?
KIM: We're going to play golf with her. We scheduled a rematch, remember?
STETH/PARIS: Oh, of course. I can't wait.
KIM: Have you been working on your putting? You missed both those two-footers last time.
STETH/PARIS: I won't let it happen again.
KIM: All right. Give the Doc my best.
STETH/PARIS: I will.
(Kim goes into a turbolift.)
STETH/PARIS: If I ever find him.

[Sickbay]

EMH: You're early, Mister Paris. I see some good came from my report to Commander Chakotay. Let's put these extra few minutes to good use. Begin with a thorough biobed diagnostic. I want you to recalibrate each physiosensor, making sure to enter each metabolic referent precisely.
STETH/PARIS: Okay.
EMH: When you're through with that, run a protein structure analysis and then continue your review of the thirty seven steps of a cardiopulmonary reconstruction procedure. I'll leave you to your biobeds.
(Steth presses a control on the tricorder. Beep!)
EMH: Did you forget to disengage the scan emitters?
STETH/PARIS: Sorry.
(Beep!)
EMH: Mister Paris.
STETH/PARIS: I don't know what's wrong.
EMH: I realise it's complicated, but you must try again.
STETH/PARIS: Actually, I'm not feeling so well.
EMH: How fortunate you're already in Sickbay. I'll run a few scans.
STETH/PARIS: No, no, Doc, that's all right. To be perfectly honest with you. This is so frustrating for me. I usually pick things up a lot faster than this.
EMH: You're here to learn, Mister Paris. It will get easier with time.
STETH/PARIS: That's easy for you to say.
EMH: Excuse me?
STETH/PARIS: Well, no offence, Doctor, but you were programmed to be a medical genius. Things always come easy to you. Me, I'm just a pilot. A grease monkey. And as hard as I might try to become a better assistant, it's clear to me now that I'll never be half the healer that you are.
EMH: Do you mean to tell me you've been trying to live up to my standards?
STETH/PARIS: I'm afraid I have.
EMH: It all makes sense now. The misplaced aggression, the shirking of responsibilities. All classic signs of an inferiority complex. I had no idea my superior abilities were affecting your psyche so strongly. Take the rest of the day off. Reflect on your strengths. Realise your worth.
STETH/PARIS: I'll do that, Doctor. Thank you.

[Torres' quarters]

(Torres enters to see 'Paris' fail to get a golf ball into the hole.)
STETH/PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: What do you think you're doing?
STETH/PARIS: Putting.
TORRES: In my quarters?
STETH/PARIS: I can't putt in your quarters?
TORRES: No.
STETH/PARIS: Since when?
TORRES: Tom. What is this?
STETH/PARIS: That is a sand wedge. It's used for getting out of traps.
TORRES: Why is it here?
STETH/PARIS: I replicated it for you. I thought we could play a little game of golf on the holodeck before dinner.
TORRES: So this is your idea of an adult conversation? I don't know what you are trying to accomplish with this little stunt, but let me assure you, it is not working. I am sorry if you are bored because Steth is gone, but that doesn't mean that you can just walk in here and pretend like you haven't been shutting me out.
STETH/PARIS: You're being a little hard on Steth. If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be here right now.
TORRES: Really?
STETH/PARIS: I mentioned to him we were having some problems and he urged me to come and talk to you. To try to work things out. To admit I was wrong. I made a mistake, B'Elanna, and I'm sorry. I won't shut you out anymore. In fact, I went to the Doctor and begged to be excused from my duties. I realise it's only a few extra hours, but they're hours I want to spend with you.
TORRES: Steth turned out to be a positive influence on you.
(He moves in for the kiss.)

[Steth's ship]

(The new version of Paris wakes up.)
PARIS/STETH: Computer, wh
(He hears his new voice.)
PARIS/STETH: Computer, where are we?
COMPUTER: Navigation matrix one seven one one. The Kotaba expanse. Coaxial leap complete.
PARIS?STETH: How far are we from Voyager? Computer, lock in Voyager's last known coordinates and activate differential induction drive.
COMPUTER: Unable to execute command.
PARIS/STETH: Why not?
COMPUTER: The differential induction drive has been secured. The security access code is required to implement the coaxial leap.
(Two large ships arrive.)
AVIK [OC]: This is Commander Avek of the Benthan Guard. We're taking you into custody. Prepare to surrender the vessel to us at once.
PARIS/STETH: Benthan? I need a second to explain, Commander. I'm not who you think
AVIK [OC]: We do not negotiate with thieves.
PARIS/STETH: No, you don't understand. I, I need the ship to get back to Voyager.
AVIK [OC]: Surrender the vessel peacefully or we will use force.
(They tractor his ship. A massive ship arrives and they leave quickly. A woman with long elaborate ear tips beams aboard.)
PARIS/STETH: Why is everybody trying to shoot me today?
DAELEN: You know what I'm here for.
PARIS/STETH: I don't know what you're talking about. Who are you?
DAELEN: I'm Steth.
PARIS/STETH: What?
DAELEN: Look at me. You did wear this body for nearly a year before you switched it with mine. That's my body you're in now. I want it back.
PARIS/STETH: Bear with me for a second. We have more in common than you might think.

[Transporter room]

(In orbit of a planet.)
TORRES: This better be good, Tom. I left Vorik right in the middle of an EPS recalibration.
STETH/PARIS: You can thank me later.
TORRES: So, what's my big surprise?
STETH/PARIS: What would you say to twenty four glorious hours on the famed fourth planet of the Kendren system?
TORRES: You mean the planet where Neelix is gathering food samples?
STETH/PARIS: I ran a few scans and found the most incredible beach on one of the smaller continents. I replicated a picnic lunch for us. Voyager isn't leaving orbit until tomorrow. We'd have an entire day.
TORRES: Only a day? Oh, I think that we would need at least a week.
STETH/PARIS: I wish we could. We've only got a day.
TORRES: You're serious, aren't you.
STETH/PARIS: Completely.
TORRES: Do you know how much trouble we would be in?
STETH/PARIS: What could Janeway do, execute us?
TORRES: Tom, I am swamped. I can't get away for an hour, let alone twenty four.
STETH/PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I have responsibilities here. We both do.
STETH/PARIS: Responsibilities? I don't care!
TORRES: Tom, you're hurting me.
STETH/PARIS: You're a real disappointment to me, do you know that? I don't know what I ever saw in you.

[Mess hall]

STETH/PARIS: Seven, what brings you here at this hour?
SEVEN: We were supposed to meet in the shuttlebay at twenty one hundred hours. Did you forget?
STETH/PARIS: I did. I got so caught up with my reading I guess it slipped my mind. Sorry.
SEVEN: The capillaries in your eyes are swollen, Lieutenant, and I see signs of vascular congestion in your cheeks. Are you intoxicated?
STETH/PARIS: No, not at all. I was just exploring the replicator, trying some alien beverages. Only a few were alcoholic.
SEVEN: You are not officially off-duty for another seventy eight minutes.
STETH/PARIS: I'm on break. Would you like to join me? I could replicate another Trakian ale for you.
SEVEN: That will not be necessary.
STETH/PARIS: Relax, Seven. You're not on the Borg Cube any more. We could finish our work on the shuttle tomorrow.
SEVEN: That would be an inefficient use of our time. I will complete the work myself.
STETH/PARIS: Fine.
SEVEN: Before I leave, I would like to know why you were reading the captain's personal logs?
STETH/PARIS: I wasn't.
SEVEN: I saw the PADD. It was unmistakably the captain's logs.
STETH/PARIS: You're wrong. You're confused. You couldn't possibly have seen anything.
SEVEN: You know I possess an eidetic memory. I require only seconds to commit what I see to memory. Would you like me to quote the passage you were reading?
STETH/PARIS: I'm warning you, stay out of my way! Don't interfere in things that don't concern you. If you bother me again, I will make things very unpleasant for you.
SEVEN: Remove your hand from my arm.
STETH/PARIS: Don't be foolish. You'll regret it.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Enter.
STETH/PARIS: You wanted to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. I received a rather disturbing report from Seven of Nine regarding your conduct last night. She claims you were drinking on duty.
STETH/PARIS: She's mistaken, Captain.
JANEWAY: Don't lie to me, Tom. I checked the computers. You replicated five alcoholic beverages in the mess hall. She also said you threatened her.
STETH/PARIS: I'm sorry, Captain. B'Elanna and I had an argument. I was upset.
JANEWAY: And is that why you were reading my personal logs?
STETH/PARIS: I wasn't!
JANEWAY: Seven recited a passage which I'd written, word for word.
STETH/PARIS: She probably accessed those files herself. Captain, you can't take the word of a Borg over mine.
JANEWAY: This has to stop, Tom. Your conduct lately has been bizarre, and I've heard far too many complaints from far too many people to dismiss it. Chakotay, the Doctor, Seven of Nine. They're all worried about you. And so am I.
STETH/PARIS: You're right, Captain. I need some rest. I'll go right to my quarters.
JANEWAY: Tom! As your Captain and as your friend, I want you to report to Sickbay for some tests. We have to find out if there's something physical that's causing this behaviour.
STETH/PARIS: This is crazy. I don't need any help.
JANEWAY: That's an order.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Security, I need you in the ready room, now!

[Ready room]

(Tuvok and a guard enter to see Paris throttling Janeway. They shoot Paris.)
TUVOK: Are you hurt, Captain?
JANEWAY: No. Take him to Sickbay. Keep security with him.

[Steth's ship]

DAELEN: The coaxial drive will be online in a few minutes.
PARIS/STETH: Good. I've just about overridden all the lock-out commands. No offence, but I'd like to get out of your body as soon as possible.
DAELEN: The alien seems capable of some sort of selective DNA exchange. He absorbs new DNA while depositing his current genetic material into his victims. Let's hope he can reverse that process.
PARIS/STETH: That's the last lock-out command. We're set for coaxial warp. Let's find Voyager.

Captain's log, supplemental. The doctor has treated Mister Paris' phaser wounds, but has been unable to wake him. The motive for his attack remains a mystery.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Neurological scans yielded very little, but I did find something very interesting in his blood analysis. There are traces of a second DNA pattern in his nucleotide structure. Possibly the result of a genetic virus.
TUVOK: Could this be the cause of his recent behaviour?
EMH: I don't know, but I'm running more scans to see how this might have affected his neurological functions.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain, a vessel just emerged from coaxial space off our starboard bow.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed, Doctor.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Hail them.
PARIS/STETH [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Welcome back, Mister Steth.
PARIS/STETH [on viewscreen]: I know this sounds crazy, Captain, but I'm not Steth. I'm Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
PARIS/STETH [on viewscreen]: We're dealing with an alien who's some sort of identity thief. He traded places with me. Please, beam us aboard.
JANEWAY: Maintain your position while we consider your request. End transmission. Hold them in a tractor beam until you hear from me.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I have a feeling Steth and his new friend are behind whatever's happened to Tom.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: No time to explain. I'll be in Sickbay.

[Shuttlecraft]

(In the shuttlebay)
SEVEN: Captain?
(Janeway shoots Seven.)

[Bridge]

KIM: Commander, I'm reading an unauthorised shuttle launch. It's the captain. She's in the shuttle Tom's been working on.
CHAKOTAY: Try hailing her.
KIM: She's not responding.
CHAKOTAY: Hail Steth's ship. Look, I don't know who you are, but I want to know what's happening here.
PARIS/STETH [on viewscreen]: Who's on that shuttle?
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway.
PARIS/STETH [on viewscreen]: No. I'm betting the alien switched my body, er, Tom's body for hers. You've got to let us out of this tractor beam. We can catch her with this ship. Chakotay, it's me.
CHAKOTAY: How do I know that?
PARIS/STETH [on viewscreen]: The other day, in your office, you told me I'd turned my life around. Well, give me the chance to prove it. Let me go after the shuttle. It is the only way we can get everybody back into the right body.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, disengage the tractor beam.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS/STETH: Twenty thousand kilometres and closing.
DAELEN: Has he detected us yet?
(Whumph!)
PARIS/STETH: I'd say he has.

[Shuttle]

STETH/JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I'd advise you to reconsider this pursuit. Killing me will only keep you trapped in those bodies.

[Steth's ship]

DAELEN: He's right. We can't risk killing him.
PARIS/STETH: Yeah, but nothing's keeping him from killing us. Damn! The ship's not nearly as manoeuverable as a shuttle.
DAELEN: Shields are down.
STETH/JANEWAY [OC]: I'm surprised you're so eager to

[Shuttle]

STETH/JANEWAY: Reclaim your life on Voyager, Tom. I was just as disappointed with it as you were.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS/STETH: Then I guess we were both wrong.

[Shuttle]

STETH/JANEWAY: It's time to move on again. Oh, Tom? Be sure to send my best regards to B'Elanna, hmm?

[Steth's ship]

DAELEN: He's charging the coaxial drive.
PARIS/STETH: Set the sensors to track him.
DAELEN: I can't. He's blocking us. We won't be able to follow him once he goes into coaxial warp. We're losing him.
PARIS/STETH: The carburettor! We added a polaric modulator to the coaxial drive. If I can target the modulator, hit it with a chromoelectric pulse, that'll disrupt his engines. Here goes.

[Shuttle]

(The drive is disabled.)
PARIS/STETH [OC]: I hope you still have my box wrench. Faulty carburettors can be a pain to fix.

Captain's log, stardate 51775.2. While the alien intruder remains trapped in the body of his last victim, the doctor has found a way to return Tom, Steth and me to our own bodies.

[Sickbay]

STETH: Doctor, I can't thank you enough. You've given me my life back.
EMH: All in a day's work.
STETH: There were times when I thought I would be stuck in that body forever.
PARIS: Believe me, I'm just as happy to be back to the old Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: What do you plan to do now?
STETH: I'm going to take her back to Bentha. I hope to find the person who belongs to that body.
EMH: But who knows if that's the end of it? We have no idea how long she or he has been switching identities.
STETH: It may take a while, but I will do whatever I can to find everyone you've violated.
JANEWAY: A security team will escort you to your ship and erect a forcefield to contain her.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey programme]

(Paris opens the garage door to show off the Camaro.)
TORRES: So this is where you've been hiding? A garage.
PARIS: It's more than just a garage. This is a monument to hundreds and hundreds of hours that I probably should have spent with you.
TORRES: Probably?
PARIS: Definitely.
TORRES: It's a lovely garage, Tom, but I still don't understand why you brought me here.
PARIS: Well, consider it a symbolic gesture. It's my less than subtle attempt to let you in.
TORRES: I see. To make it clear that I mean almost as much to you as a cam-a-ro.
PARIS: It's a mint condition 1969 Camaro. And yes, you mean a lot more to me.
(They get into the car, and smooch to Let's Go Tripping, by Dick Dale.)


S4 E21
The Omega Directive
Stardate: 51781.2
Original Airdate: April 15, 1998

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Oh six hundred hours. Regeneration cycle complete.
SEVEN: Daily log, Seven of Nine, stardate 15781.2. Today, Ensign Kim and I will conduct a comprehensive diagnostic of the aft sensor array. I have allocated three hours twenty minutes for the task, and an additional seventeen minutes for Ensign Kim's usual conversational digressions. I am scheduled to take a nutritional supplement at fifteen hundred hours, engage in one hour of cardiovascular activity, then I intend to review a text the Doctor recommended entitled A Christmas Carol. He believes it will have educational value. End log.
(Yes, she really did get the stardate wrong.)

[Mess hall]

KIM: I'll get this. Don't give me any hints.
TUVOK: I have no intention of doing so.
SEVEN: Ensign.
KIM: Hi, Seven.
SEVEN: Are you ready to begin our sensor diagnostic?
KIM: Is it oh six hundred already? We've been playing all night.
SEVEN: Vulcan kal-toh.
KIM: For a game of logic, you'd be surprised at how addictive it is. Give me a few more minutes to figure this out.
TUVOK: You should attend to your duties, Ensign. I'll accept your forfeit.
KIM: No way. This is the closest I've ever come to beating you. I'm not giving up now. (Tuvok sighs. Seven takes the rod from Kim and places it in the structure. Kal-toh!)
TUVOK: Impressive.
SEVEN: Elementary spatial harmonics. Are you ready now?
KIM: Yeah, sure. I would've gotten that.

[Corridor]

KIM: Is there anything you don't know?
SEVEN: I was Borg.
KIM: I was Borg. That's what you always say but what does it mean? You've got the knowledge of ten thousand species in your head?
SEVEN: Not exactly. Each drone's experiences are processed by the Collective. Only useful information is retained.
KIM: Still, that probably makes you the most intelligent human being alive.
SEVEN: Probably.
KIM: So what do you need the rest of us for? Forget I asked.
(Rumble.)
KIM: What was that?

[Bridge]

PARIS: We just dropped out of warp.
CHAKOTAY: What's the problem?
PARIS: We were hit by some kind of shockwave.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
PARIS: Checking.
(Fwd navigational scan 307 goes blank.)
PARIS: Hold on. I just lost all my sensor readings. The computer's bringing up some kind of message, but I can't access it. You'd better take a look at this.
(It is on all the screens. A big blue greek Omega symbol.)
CHAKOTAY: I see it.
PARIS: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: I have no idea. My command codes aren't working. The computer says I have insufficient clearance to access the message. We can't function like this. I'm going to get Harry up here to trace the source.
(Janeway enters from her ready room.)
JANEWAY: Don't do anything. I'll take care of this.
(She clears the symbol from the screens.)
JANEWAY: Send all sensor data about the particle wave to my ready room. Tom, disengage engines and hold position here.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, what's going on?
JANEWAY: I can't explain right now. Don't discuss any of this with the rest of the crew. I'll have further instructions for you soon.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Computer, seal the doors to this room. No entry without my authorisation.
COMPUTER: Doors are sealed.
JANEWAY: Access secured datafile Omega one.
COMPUTER: Voiceprint confirmed. State clearance code.
JANEWAY: Janeway one one five three red. Clearance level ten.
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Sensors have detected the Omega phenomenon within one point two light years of this vessel. Implement the Omega Directive immediately. All other priorities have been rescinded.
JANEWAY: Display sensor data.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY: I've been informed this is a highly classified mission. Information will be provided on a need-to-know basis. Captain's orders.
TORRES: Classified? By who? We're sixty thousand light years from Starfleet.
CHAKOTAY: Like I said. Need to know. B'Elanna, she wants you to install multiphasic shielding around the warp core.
TORRES: I've never seen this shield configuration. I'd like to run a couple of computer simulations to make sure it's stable.
CHAKOTAY: No time. She needs this done by eleven hundred hours.
TORRES: Eleven hundred? I don't think that's possible.
CHAKOTAY: Make it possible.
SEVEN: Are we attempting to protect the core from some form of subspace radiation?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know any more than you do.
SEVEN: It will be difficult to complete the task without more data.
CHAKOTAY: The data you've got will have to do. Tom, start modifying a shuttlecraft to withstand extreme thermal stress. Twelve thousand Kelvins, at least.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
TORRES: Does all this have anything to do with that secret message the Captain received?
CHAKOTAY: What have you heard?
TORRES: Rumours, mainly. Janeway's been locked in her ready room for the past sixteen hours. Something about an Omega Directive.
SEVEN: Omega?
PARIS: Ring a bell?
CHAKOTAY: Look, the speculation ends right here. Now, I expect you to carry out your assignments with a minimum of gossip, understood? I know it's hard not to wonder. Frankly, I'm curious myself, but the captain was very adamant about this. Get going. (to Seven) The captain wants to see you.
SEVEN: I thought she might.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in. What do you know about the Omega Directive?
SEVEN: Everything you do, most likely.
JANEWAY: I thought as much. The Borg assimilated Starfleet captains. You would possess all of their knowledge.
SEVEN: That's correct. Do you intend to carry out the Directive?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: Then sensors have detected the molecule.
JANEWAY: So it would appear. But we have to confirm it.
SEVEN: We?
JANEWAY: You're going to help me carry out the Directive. Protocol forbids me from discussing this mission with any of my crew, but since you already know about it, my choice is to either work with you or confine you to quarters.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should do the latter. I will not help you destroy Omega. It should be harnessed.
JANEWAY: That's impossible.
SEVEN: The Borg believe otherwise.
JANEWAY: Explain.
SEVEN: On one occasion, we were able to create a single Omega molecule. We kept it stable for one trillionth of a nanosecond before it destabilised. We didn't have enough boronite ore left to synthesise more, but the knowledge we gained allowed us to refine our theories.
JANEWAY: The Borg have been waiting for the chance to test them out.
SEVEN: Yes. But we never found another source of the ore. Until now.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but if someone out there is experimenting with Omega, I'm under orders to stop them. Otherwise, this entire quadrant would be at risk.
SEVEN: Those orders were issued as a result of Starfleet's ignorance and fear. I can alleviate your ignorance. As for your fear
JANEWAY: Sometimes fear should be respected, Seven. Tell me, how many Borg were sacrificed during this experiment?
SEVEN: Twenty nine vessels, six hundred thousand drones. But that is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Not to me, not to my crew, and not to the people who live in this quadrant. I'm going to neutralise this threat, Seven, with or without your help.
SEVEN: I will assist you.
JANEWAY: You will?
SEVEN: I have waited many years to observe this molecule firsthand. I will not deny myself this experience.
JANEWAY: All right. Go back to your cargo bay, assemble all the data you have about Omega. I'll expect a report within the hour. I didn't realise you had such a strong scientific curiosity.
SEVEN: Not curiosity. Desire.
JANEWAY: Desire?
SEVEN: Omega is infinitely complex, yet harmonious. To the Borg it represents perfection. I wish to understand that perfection.
JANEWAY: The Borg's Holy Grail.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: Never mind. I'll see you in an hour.

[Medical lab]

EMH: Arithrazine? What for?
JANEWAY: I'm going on an away mission.
EMH: What are you planning to do, stroll through a supernova?
JANEWAY: Something like that. Twenty milligrams. When can you have it ready?
EMH: Captain, arithrazine is used for the most severe cases of theta radiation poisoning. A physician must be present to monitor the treatment.
JANEWAY: That won't be possible.
EMH: Then I'm afraid I can't accommodate you. I'd be in violation of Starfleet Medical Protocols.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm overriding those protocols.
EMH: Don't tell me. The Omega Directive, whatever that might be.
JANEWAY: The arithrazine, Doctor.
EMH: It'll be ready in the morning.
JANEWAY: Have it sent to the shuttlebay.
EMH: Captain, I don't know what's going on here but I'd hate this to be the last time I ever see you. Please be careful.
JANEWAY: I will.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: I've analysed the sensor logs using Borg algorithms. The shockwave we detected indicates not one but possibly hundreds of Omega molecules.
JANEWAY: Location?
SEVEN: Within ten light years. I'm having difficulty isolating the exact star system.
JANEWAY: Hundreds of molecules? That changes everything.
SEVEN: A shuttle mission may be insufficient. We require the resources of this entire crew.
JANEWAY: We're going to need more firepower, more protection. Transfer your data to the Astrometrics lab. I'll work on it there.

[Science lab]

TUVOK: Calibration complete. Phase modulator. Detonator circuits?
KIM: On standby.
TUVOK: We're ready to load the gravimetric charge.
KIM: This looks like enough for a fifty isoton explosion.
(A small globe with two tubes sticking out of the bottom.)
TUVOK: Fifty four, to be exact.
KIM: What are we planning to do, blow up a small planet?
TUVOK: I don't know.
KIM: This warhead isn't standard issue. Who designed it, the captain?
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, you ask too many questions. Change of plans, gentlemen. Increase the charge to eighty isotons.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, when you're done here, give B'Elanna a hand with the shuttlecraft. She's reinforcing the hull.
KIM: Right.
(Janeway leaves.)
KIM: Ensign Hickman thinks it's species eight four seven two.
TUVOK: Pardon me?
KIM: That's his theory. There's an opening in fluidic space, and Captain Janeway has to shut it down. Want to know what I think?
TUVOK: No.
KIM: I think there's a type six protostar out there, and the captain's planning on detonating it and opening up a wormhole to the Alpha Quadrant. In theory, it's possible. And because she doesn't want to get our hopes up, she's not telling anybody.
TUVOK: Then I wouldn't suggest getting your hopes up.
KIM: Then what do you think it is?
TUVOK: I do not engage in idle speculation.
KIM: Oh, come on, Tuvok. Aren't you curious?
TUVOK: Yes, but we have a task at hand. The phase modulator.

[Astrometrics lab]

JANEWAY: Come in. Status report?
CHAKOTAY: Everything's going according to schedule.
JANEWAY: Good. The Omega Directive doesn't allow me to say much but I want you to know what to expect. At oh six hundred hours, I'll be leaving in a shuttle with Seven of Nine.
CHAKOTAY: Would it be out of line to ask where you're going?
JANEWAY: I can tell you this. One of two things is going to happen. Either Seven and I will succeed on our mission, and return within a few days, or your long range sensors will detect a large explosion in subspace. If that occurs, you'll have less than ten seconds to jump to warp and get the hell out of here. Head for the Alpha Quadrant and don't look back, understood?
CHAKOTAY: I always thought Starfleet was run by duty-crazed bureaucrats, but I find it hard to believe that even they would order a captain to go on a suicide mission. This shuttle excursion is your idea, isn't it?
JANEWAY: Let's just say I've had to amend the Directive, given the circumstances, But you have your orders and I expect you to follow them.
CHAKOTAY: That's expecting a lot. You're asking me to abandon my captain and closest friend without even telling me why.
JANEWAY: If it were a simple matter of trust I wouldn't hesitate to tell you, but we've encountered situations where information was taken from us by force. I can't allow knowledge of Omega to go beyond Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: That's a reasonable argument, but you're not always a reasonable woman. You're determined to protect this crew, and this time you've taken it too far. A dangerous mission? Fine, I'll acknowledge that, but isn't it more likely to succeed with everyone behind you, working together?
JANEWAY: Ordinarily, I'd agree. But this Directive was issued many years ago, and Starfleet didn't exactly have our predicament in mind. Lost in the Delta Quadrant, with no backup. I can't ignore the orders, but I won't ask the crew to risk their lives because of my obligation.
CHAKOTAY: My obligation. That's where you're wrong. Voyager may be alone out here, but you're not. Let us help you. We'll keep classified information limited to the senior staff. We'll take every security precaution. Just don't try to do this alone.
JANEWAY: Assemble the troops.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: If we were in the Alpha Quadrant right now, we wouldn't be having this conversation. I'd be in contact with Starfleet Command, and they'd send in a specialised team to deal with the crisis. In their absence, we're going to have to make do with the training I've received, and the knowledge Seven of Nine has retained from the Borg. You've all seen this symbol. Omega, the last letter of the Greek alphabet. Chosen by Starfleet to represent a threat not only to the Federation, but to the entire galaxy. Only starship captains and Federation Flag Officers have been briefed on the nature of this threat. What you're about to hear will not go beyond these bulkheads, is that clear? Good.
(She calls up a rotating image on the wall screen.)
JANEWAY: This is Omega.
PARIS: A molecule?
JANEWAY: Not just any molecule. The most powerful substance known to exist. A single Omega molecule contains the same energy as a warp core. In theory, a small chain of them could sustain a civilisation. The molecule was first synthesised over a hundred years ago, by a Starfleet physicist named Ketteract. I think he was hoping to develop an inexhaustible power source.
SEVEN: Or a weapon.
JANEWAY: Ketteract managed to synthesise a single molecule particle of Omega, but it only existed for a fraction of a second before it destabilised.
(Another image. A space station with a big hole in it.)
JAEWAY: This was a classified research station in the Lantaru Sector. Ketteract and one hundred twenty six of the Federation's leading scientists were lost in the accident. Rescue teams attempting to reach the site discovered an unexpected secondary effect. There were subspace ruptures extending out several light years.
PARIS: The Lantaru Sector. It's impossible to create a stable warp field there. You can only fly through it at sublight speeds. I was always told that was a natural phenomenon. You're saying it was caused by a single molecule of this stuff?
JANEWAY: Omega destroys subspace. A chain reaction involving a handful of molecules could devastate subspace throughout an entire Quadrant. If that were to happen, warp travel would become impossible. Space-faring civilisation as we know it would cease to exist. When Starfleet realised Omega's power, they suppressed all knowledge of it.
EMH: Have you detected Omega here, in the Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so. I've been authorised to use whatever means necessary to destroy it. Tom, I've calculated the location of the molecules. I'll transfer the coordinates to the helm. Take us there at full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I don't have to tell you what's at stake. If a large-scale Omega explosion occurs, we will lose the ability to go to warp forever. We've got our work cut out for us.

Captain's log, supplemental. Encrypt log entry. We're approaching the star system where we believe we'll find Omega. I have to admit, I have never been this apprehensive about a mission. I know how Einstein must have felt about the atom bomb, or Marcus when she developed the Genesis device. They watched helplessly as science took a destructive course. But I have the chance to prevent that from happening. I just hope it's not too late.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: Status report?
SEVEN: This is a harmonic resonance chamber. The Borg designed it to contain and stabilise Omega.
JANEWAY: I thought I asked you to work on the photon torpedo.
SEVEN: The torpedo may be insufficient. I can modify this chamber to emit an inverse frequency. It will be enough to dissolve Omega's interatomic bonds.
JANEWAY: Here's to Borg ingenuity. This is excellent work, Seven. We may need this.
SEVEN: The modifications require several complex calculations. Assist me.
JANEWAY: I guess I will. I'm curious. When did the Borg discover Omega?
SEVEN: Two hundred twenty nine years ago.
JANEWAY: Assimilation?
SEVEN: Yes, of thirteen different species.
JANEWAY: Thirteen?
SEVEN: It began with Species two six two. They were primitive, but their oral history referred to a powerful substance which could burn the sky. The Borg were intrigued, which led them to Species two six three. They too were primitive, and believed it was a drop of blood from their Creator.
JANEWAY: Fascinating.
SEVEN: Yes, but irrelevant. We followed this trail of myth for many years until finally assimilating a species with useful scientific data. We then created the molecule ourselves.
JANEWAY: Omega caused quite a stir among my own species. Federation cosmologists had a theory that the molecule once existed in nature for an infinitesimal period of time at the exact moment of the Big Bang. Some claimed Omega was the primal source of energy for the explosion that began our universe.
SEVEN: A creation myth like any other.
JANEWAY: Perhaps. What is it the Borg say? That Omega is perfect?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Is that a theory or a belief.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. I'm leaving this project in your hands. Use whatever resources and personnel you need.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We've entered a planetary system.
JANEWAY: Inhabited?
CHAKOTAY: There's a pre-warp civilisation on the outermost planet. The source of Omega seems to be further in.
PARIS: The damage to subspace in this region is extreme. We won't be able to go to warp.
TUVOK: We're encountering distortions.
JANEWAY: Track their origin.
TUVOK: An M class moon. We're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(A patch of the moon is throbbing pale blue.)
TUVOK: There's a subnucleonic reaction occurring in the upper atmosphere. It is apparently emanating from a structure on the moon's surface.
JANEWAY: Can your sensors penetrate the atmosphere?
KIM: Stand by.
(An image of a smoking central blast point, with damage radiating away.)
JANEWAY: My God.
KIM: Over three hundred thousand square kilometres destroyed.
JANEWAY: Scan the structure. Are there any Omega molecules remaining?
TUVOK: I can't tell. Several sections of the outpost are still shielded.
KIM: I'm detecting lifesigns.
CHAKOTAY: How many?
KIM: A few dozen maybe. It's hard to get a clear reading.
JANEWAY: Harry, can we transport to the surface?
KIM: I can get you there, but conditions in the structure aren't good. There are high levels of radiation.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, assemble a rescue team and have them report to Sickbay for arithrazine inoculations. Tell the Doctor to prepare for casualties. Tom, move Voyager into a high orbit, and then join the away team. We'll need a field medic.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: You're going with them?
JANEWAY: If Omega's still down there, I have to find it. I'll keep an open comm. link with the ship. You have the bridge.

[Laboratory]

(Down on the moon, they find an injured alien amongst the wreckage.)
JANEWAY: I'm picking up Omega's resonance frequency. It's here but I can't pinpoint a location.
(Janeway goes to the first alien. Pale flesh and a nasty wound on his cheek.)
JANEWAY: I need to ask you questions about the experiments you've been conducting here.
ALLOS: There was an accident. We lost containment.
JANEWAY: The substance you were trying to create. Did any of it survive the explosion?
ALLOS: Yes.
JANEWAY: Where?
ALLOS: Inside the primary test chamber. Who are you?
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We're here to help you. Away team to Voyager. Two to beam directly to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: This door is solid duritanium, thirteen centimetres thick.
JANEWAY: Can we get it open?
TUVOK: The duritanium has melted into the door frame. We'll need to cut through the metal with phasers.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Captain, I'd be negligent if I didn't point out that we're about to violate the Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: For the duration of this mission the Prime Directive has been rescinded. Let's get this over with.

[Cargo Bay two]

(A hive of activity. A large egg-shaped structure has been built.)
SEVEN: Crewman Dell, I'm assigning you a task more suited to your abilities. Calibrate the ionic pressure seals on the observation ports. Your new designation is Three of Ten.
DELL: Yes, ma'am.
(Neelix enters.)
NEELIX: I've got more isolinear processors for you to install.
KIM: Thanks, but I need to get the power relays online first.
NEELIX: Are you sure that's a good idea? Ensign Wildman was assigned to that.
KIM: This is ridiculous. I'm not going to waste time just because Seven wants to turn this team into her own private Collective.
NEELIX: She says it's more efficient.
KIM: Maybe for a bunch of Drones.
SEVEN: Six of Ten, this is not your assignment.
KIM: Please, stop calling me that.
SEVEN: You are compromising our productivity. I'm reassigning you to chamber maintenance. Your new designation is Two of Ten.
KIM: Wait a minute, you're demoting me? Since when do the Borg pull rank?
SEVEN: A Starfleet protocol I adapted. I find it most useful.
KIM: I'm glad you're not the captain.
(Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: How's it coming?
SEVEN: The crew can be quite efficient when properly organised. The harmonic chamber will be completed within the hour.
CHAKOTAY: Good. I'll let the captain know.
SEVEN: Has she retrieved any new data from the surface?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. They're still trying to access the primary test chamber.
SEVEN: Were there survivors?
CHAKOTAY: A few. The Doctor's treating them in Sickbay.
KIM: Commander. Seven's taking this hive mentality just a little too far. Designated functions, numbered Drones. I wouldn't be surprised if she started plugging us into alcoves.
CHAKOTAY: When in the Collective, Harry, adapt.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH has at least four patients now.)
SEVEN: Which of them is the senior researcher?
EMH: This gentleman. Why do you ask?
(He nods towards the surgical alcove.)
SEVEN: He has knowledge I require.
EMH: He also happens to be barely conscious. Come back in an hour.
SEVEN: Unacceptable.
EMH: Unavoidable. This is my sickbay. The man needs to recover.
SEVEN: The Captain left me in charge of our efforts on Voyager. I would be negligent if I ignored a source of new information.
(The EMH steps in front of her.)
EMH: Our next social skills seminar is entitled Adding Diplomatic Flair To Future Negotiations. How are you feeling, sir?
ALLOS: Better, thank you.
EMH: Are you comfortable enough to speak with this individual?
(Allos nods.)
EMH: Keep it brief.
(The EMH leaves them.)
SEVEN: How many of the molecules were you able to synthesise?
ALLOS: Two hundred million? I'm not certain.
SEVEN: What is the isofrequency of your containment field?
ALLOS: One point six eight terahertz. We used the molecule's own resonance to calculate the field.
SEVEN: That should have been enough to stabilise them.
ALLOS: Obviously, it wasn't.
SEVEN: Obviously. But your approach is innovative. Perhaps I can adapt your technique and improve upon it. You will assist me.
ALLOS: Our equipment was destroyed. If you can transfer the molecules to your ship, maybe they can be saved.
SEVEN: I have no intention of saving them.
ALLOS: What?
SEVEN: My orders are to destroy the Omega molecules.
ALLOS: This is my life's work. The salvation of my people!
SEVEN: Will you assist me or not?
ALLOS: Our resources are nearly gone. The future of my people depends on this discovery.
SEVEN: Then your answer is no.
ALLOS: Small-minded creatures. You destroy whatever you don't understand! Rescue ships are on the way. They won't let you do it.
EMH: Please, try to be calm. Seven, you'll have to leave.
ALLOS: You don't realise what you're doing. You don't know what this is, what this means.
SEVEN: On the contrary. I understand perfectly.

[Laboratory]

TUVOK: We've disabled the locking mechanism.
JANEWAY: Narrow your phaser beams to cut through the inner seal.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. We'd risk penetrating the containment field.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to use some elbow grease. Give me a hand. Right.
(They pull the protective door aside. The blue light from the chamber fills the room.)
JANEWAY: There's enough here to wipe out subspace across half the quadrant.
TUVOK: I'll order the away teams back to Voyager and target this facility with the gravimetric charge.
JANEWAY: It won't be enough. We'll have to go with our Borg option. Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Return to the ship. Tell Commander Chakotay to help Seven complete the harmonic chamber. We'll have to transport Omega directly to the ship. That means finding a way to shut down this containment field.
TUVOK: It's unfortunate we can't study this phenomenon in more detail. We may not have the opportunity again.
JANEWAY: Let's hope we never do.
TUVOK: A curious statement from a woman of science.
JANEWAY: I'm also a woman who occasionally knows when to quit. Take another look at your tricorder. Omega's too dangerous. I won't risk half the quadrant to satisfy our curiosity. It's arrogant, and it's irresponsible. The final frontier has some boundaries that shouldn't be crossed, and we're looking at one.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The work on the chamber is finished.)
SEVEN: We don't need to destroy the molecules. I believe I've found a way to stabilise them. The alien in Sickbay calibrated his containment field using Omega's own resonance, an approach unknown to the Borg. I have modified this chamber
CHAKOTAY: Those weren't your orders. The Captain wants Omega eliminated.
SEVEN: That is still an option, if she insists on yielding to her fear.
CHAKOTAY: Show me what you've done.
SEVEN: This simulation shows the molecules in their free state, highly unstable. I've modified the chamber to emit a harmonic waveform that will dampen the molecules.
CHAKOTAY: Looks great, in theory, but this is only a simulation. How are you going to test it?
SEVEN: On Omega.
CHAKOTAY: Bad idea. One mistake, and no one will be around for a second try.
SEVEN: It will work.
CHAKOTAY: Someday, maybe. Hang on to your research. For now, we stick to the plan. Stand by to transport the molecules into this chamber and neutralise them as ordered.
SEVEN: I have been a member of this crew for nine months. In all of that time, I have never made a personal request. I am making one now. Allow me to proceed. Please.
CHAKOTAY: Why is this so important to you?
SEVEN: Particle zero one zero. The Borg designation for what you call Omega. Every Drone is aware of its existence. We were instructed to assimilate it at all costs. It is perfection. The molecules exist in a flawless state. Infinite parts functioning as one.
CHAKOTAY: Like the Borg.
SEVEN: Precisely. I am no longer Borg, but I still need to understand that perfection. Without it, my existence will never be complete. Commander, you are a spiritual man.
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
SEVEN: If you had the chance to see your God, your Great Spirit, what would you do?
CHAKOTAY: I'd pursue it, with all my heart.
SEVEN: Then you understand.
CHAKOTAY: I think I do. I'll inform the captain of your discovery. For now, her orders stand.
SEVEN: Thank you.

[Laboratory]

(Transporter pattern enhancers have been set up.)
JANEWAY: Set the confinement beam to its narrowest dispersion.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: We'll target this facility with the gravimetric torpedo. If anything goes wrong during transport, that'll be our only hope.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Janeway. We've detected two ships on an intercept course. They're not responding to hails.
JANEWAY: How long until they get here?

[Bridge]

PARIS: Less than four minutes, Captain.
JANEWAY [OC]: Standby to transport the

[Laboratory]

JANEWAY [OC]: Molecules directly to the harmonic chamber.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Understood. Bridge to

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Cargo bay.
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven, get ready.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: We'll have to do this quickly.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: That's not advisable.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We don't have a choice.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The alien ships are on their way.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Then I recommend moving the ship within five thousand kilometres of the surface.
PARIS [OC]: That'll take us right into the atmosphere.

[Bridge]

PARIS: With our shields down, we won't withstand the thermal reaction for more than a few seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll only get one shot at this. Take us in.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Transporter status?
KIM: Targeting scanners are locked.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, are you ready?

[Laboratory]

TUVOK: Pattern enhancers are active.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Bridge]

(An aurora plays across the viewscreen.)
PARIS: We're eleven thousand kilometres from the surface. If we get much closer, we'll incinerate.
KIM: We're losing structural integrity.

[Laboratory]

PARIS [OC]: Nine thousand kilometres.
JANEWAY: We're close enough. Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Initiating transport.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The chamber lights up bright blue.)
SEVEN: The Omega molecules are stable.

[Bridge]

SEVEN [OC]: Transport was successful.
KIM: I've got the away team in transporter room two.
CHAKOTAY: Get us out of here, maximum impulse.
PARIS: Already on it.
CHAKOTAY: How far away are those ships?
PARIS: They're right on our tail.
(A little later, looking at long range sensor scan 562.)
CHAKOTAY: We're heading into an area of open space. No indications of life or any kind of technology. We can carry out the procedure with no risk to anyone else.
PARIS: Except those two ships behind us.
JANEWAY: Can we stay ahead of them?
PARIS: Not for long.
CHAKOTAY: How soon can we clear the subspace ruptures and go to warp?
PARIS: Ten, maybe fifteen minutes. But those ships will catch up to us before then.
JANEWAY: Well we have one advantage. We've got Omega. They won't risk firing at us. At least not until they run out of options. That should give us a chance to neutralise the molecules.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we might have another problem.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine?
CHAKOTAY: She's convinced she can stabilise Omega.
JANEWAY: I thought we'd settled that question.
CHAKOTAY: While you were on the surface, she showed me a pretty convincing simulation of how it could be done.
JANEWAY: I should have known she wouldn't just let this go. I'll be in Cargo Bay two.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: Seven, the procedure?
SEVEN: It's working. Eleven percent of the molecules have already been neutralised.
JANEWAY: Let's see if we can speed up the process a little.
SEVEN: Did Chakotay tell you about my idea?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: Then you will allow me to stabilise the remaining molecules.
JANEWAY: You know I can't do that.
SEVEN: Your Starfleet Directive is no longer relevant. I have found a way to control Omega.
JANEWAY: I don't care if you can make it sing and dance. We're getting rid of it.
SEVEN: A foolish decision.
JANEWAY: Yes, but it's mine to make. Now step aside.
SEVEN: I could have done this without your permission, but I chose to follow your command structure. I should have made the attempt. I still can.
JANEWAY: But you won't. You know I'm not trying to stop you from finding perfection, but I can't risk the safety of this Quadrant. Omega must end here. We both know that. Status?
SEVEN: Eighteen percent.
JANEWAY: This could take hours. Can you increase the harmonic resonance?
SEVEN: Yes. but it would rupture the chamber.
JANEWAY: How many molecules would we neutralise?
SEVEN: Forty, fifty percent at best.
JANEWAY: That's good enough. Our torpedo can take care of the rest. Janeway to bridge.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay here.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, I want you to clear deck four. Put emergency forcefields around this section. Prepare to decompress Cargo Bay two on my command.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Understood.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, load the gravimetric torpedo. Once we've jettisoned the chamber, fire.
TUVOK [OC]: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harmonic resonance to maximum.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Commander, they're closing on us.
TUVOK: They're attempting to stop us with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Adjust shields to compensate.
KIM: They're hailing us.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
ALIEN CAPTAIN [on viewscreen]: Disengage your engines and prepare to be boarded.
CHAKOTAY: I can't do that.
ALIEN CAPTAIN [on viewscreen]: You've stolen our technology, abducted our people.
CHAKOTAY: Your people are safe. They're receiving medical care. I'll be glad to get them back to you when this is over. But we're keeping the molecules.
ALIEN CAPTAIN [on viewscreen]: I won't allow this substance to fall into enemy hands. I'll destroy it first.
TUVOK: They're charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: You'll destabilise the molecules. We'll both be destroyed.
ALIEN CAPTAIN [on viewscreen]: Then return our technology. Now.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. That's not possible.
(Transmission ends. The ships start firing.)
TUVOK: Direct hit. Shields down ten percent.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Try to shake them off.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Harmonic resonance at maximum, Captain.
JANEWAY: The molecules?
SEVEN: Eighty percent remaining.
JANEWAY: We need to get that down to sixty.
SEVEN: Any damage to our power grid could overload the chamber. Omega would chain react.
JANEWAY: The same thought crossed my mind. Where are we now?
SEVEN: Seventy two percent.
JANEWAY: That's close enough, Bridge, start the decompression sequence.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged.
(An alarm sounds.)
JANEWAY: What's wrong? What's happening?
SEVEN: The molecules are stabilising.
JANEWAY: What?
SEVEN: I've done nothing. It's occurring spontaneously.
JANEWAY: That's impossible.
COMPUTER: Decompression in thirty seconds. Decompression in twenty five seconds.
(Seven gazes into the chamber window, and sees the molecules form their glittering sphere.)
JANEWAY: Seven, let's move.
COMPUTER: Decompression in twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Seven!
COMPUTER: Decompression in fifteen seconds.
(Janeway and Seven run out of the cargo bay.)
COMPUTER: Decompression in ten seconds.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Tom, are we clear of the subspace ruptures?
PARIS: Almost.
CHAKOTAY: I need maximum warp within ten seconds or we'll be stuck at ground zero.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: Decompression is complete. The harmonic chamber has been jettisoned.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!
(The torpedo hits the chamber and it explodes into purple.)
PARIS: We made it. We're at warp one.
(Janeway and Seven enter.)
JANEWAY: The alien ships?
PARIS: Out of range.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Sensors show no traces of Omega molecules.
JANEWAY: Mission accomplished.

Captain's log, stardate 51793.4. We've arranged for our guests in Sickbay to be taken back to their homeworld, and we can finally put this mission behind us. This will be my last encrypted log concerning the Omega Directive. The classified datafiles will now be destroyed.

[Holodeck - da Vinci's Workshop]

(Seven is gazing at the crucifix on the wall.)
JANEWAY: I wondered who was running my programme. Master da Vinci doesn't like visitors after midnight.
SEVEN: He protested. I deactivated him.
JANEWAY: What are you doing here, Seven?
SEVEN: This simulation contains many religious components. I was studying them to help me understand what I saw in Cargo Bay two.
JANEWAY: The data isn't clear why Omega stabilised in the last few seconds. The chances are it was simply a chaotic anomaly, nothing more.
SEVEN: For three point two seconds I saw perfection. When Omega stabilised, I felt a curious sensation. As I was watching it, it seemed to be watching me. The Borg have assimilated many species with mythologies to explain such moments of clarity. I've always dismissed them as trivial. Perhaps I was wrong.
JANEWAY: If I didn't know you better, I'd say you just had your first spiritual experience.


S4 E22
Unforgettable
Stardate: 51813.4
Original Airdate: 22 April 1998

[Bridge]
KIM: When the Captain told us to start collecting deuterium, Seven suggested a series of modifications to the Bussard collectors. The problem is I didn't realise the extent of the modifications until after we'd begun the sweep. I mean, not that there was anything wrong with them, in fact efficiency is up twenty three percent
CHAKOTAY: In a nutshell, Harry.
KIM: The collectors are almost full, but I can't tell exactly how full until I realign my sensors with Seven's.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't you just say so? Next time, work closer with her from the start.
KIM: Closer. Right.
PARIS: So, you're going to realign your sensors with Seven's. Sounds like fun.
KIM: Very funny.
(Whumph, beep.)
PARIS: What was that?
CHAKOTAY: Are you getting feedback from Seven's modifications?
KIM: Negative.
(Janeway comes out of her ready room.)
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I am picking up proton surges just outside the ship. The first was off the port beam and the second two were off the starboard bow.
JANEWAY: On screen. There's nothing out there.
PARIS: Whatever it is, it's getting closer.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Janeway to Astrometrics.
SEVEN [OC]: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Use the Astrometrics sensors to scan for the disturbance.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I'm detecting close range weapons fire.
JANEWAY [OC]: Source?
SEVEN: Proton surges suggest two cloaked ships engaged in battle.

[Bridge]

KIM: With us caught in the middle.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: There's a massive power surge, like one of the ships is exploding.
(A ship now comes into view.)
TUVOK: Captain, there is one life sign aboard that vessel.
(The ship disappears again.)
TUVOK: It is no longer on our sensors.
KIM: We're being hailed, audio only.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
(A woman's voice.)
KELLIN [OC]: Chakotay, please, I need your help.
(The ship keeps appearing and disappearing.)
KELLIN [OC]: Chakotay, are you reading me? Please answer.
CHAKOTAY: This is Commander Chakotay. Who are you?
KELLIN [OC]: Please, anyone on Voyager, if you can hear me, I need help.
TUVOK: There has been an explosion on the vessel.
KIM: The hull is destabilising. Life support is offline.
JANEWAY: Beam her directly to Sickbay.
KIM: Targeting her coordinates. I've lost her. Trying again. I don't understand, I get a clear lock, then it drops out.
CHAKOTAY: If we can get an away team over there, we could stabilise her ship and tractor it in.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, Tuvok, let's find out what's going on.

[Kellin's ship]

(The place is dark, and a wreck. Metal creaks and bangs somewhere.)
TUVOK: Environmental systems are not functioning. Oxygen levels are dangerously low.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, try to get life support online.
TUVOK: No lifesigns.
CHAKOTAY: See if you can stabilise the hull. I'll look for the pilot. Hello? Can you hear me?
KELLIN [OC]: Chakotay, is it you?
(A red high-heeled boot is sticking out from under a sheet of metal.)
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I'm going to get this bulkhead off you.
KELLIN [OC]: But the beam will fall.
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to pry the bulkhead off you. When I say now, get ready to roll out of there like your life depended on it.
KELLIN [OC}: All right.
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
KELLIN [OC]: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: Now!
(She moves. When Chakotay releases the bulkhead, the beam does fall. He takes the blonde woman with pointed ears in his arms.)
KELLIN: I knew you'd come.
CHAKOTAY: Do I know you? Chakotay to Voyager, two to beam directly to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: How is she?
EMH: I'm not certain. When I scan her, the readings won't stay in the database. Luckily, I'm a master of visual diagnosis. She has a minor concussion and a compound tibular fracture. Nothing life-threatening. I can repair the damage.
JANEWAY: Did you find out how she knows you?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
(The EMH treats Kellin's concussion.)
KELLIN: No. I can't.
EMH: She's coming around. Don't be frightened. You're quite safe here.
KELLIN: Captain, please, I need asylum. You must let me stay on your ship, and we've got to get away from here. They'll be coming after me.
JANEWAY: Slow down a minute. I have a few questions first. Who are you, and how do you know my First Officer?
KELLIN: It's a complicated story. I'm not, I'm not sure quite how to begin. But if you don't give me asylum, they're going to track me down and they're going to take me back. And I don't want to go.
JANEWAY: We won't turn you over to anyone without knowing the whole story.
KELLIN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Chakotay. I want you to stay with her. She seems to trust you. Maybe you'll be able to find out what this is all about.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed.
(Janeway leaves.)
EMH: Once I've repaired the fracture, she'll need some bed rest.
KELLIN: Will you stay with me?
CHAKOTAY: Of course.
KELLIN: Then I'll be fine.
EMH: There, that should do it. I'd ask you to monitor her vital signs, but since they aren't registering, I suppose there's no point. Well, I have several days' worth of inoculation records to catalogue. I suppose I'll get to it.
KELLIN: Is he gone?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
KELLIN: Then we're alone.
CHAKOTAY: In a manner of speaking. Can you start clearing up a few things now?
KELLIN: I'll try. It's complicated. You see, we've met before.
CHAKOTAY: If that were true, I'm sure I'd remember.
KELLIN: No, you wouldn't. You couldn't. You see, the memories of my people can't be held in the minds of other races. When we encounter others, which we do infrequently, they remember us for a few hours, but then the memories fade away. We're completely forgotten by the next day.
CHAKOTAY: Is this done through technology? Telepathy?
KELLIN: It's a factor of our biology. You see, our bodies produce a sort of pheromone which blocks the long-term memory engrams of others.
CHAKOTAY: Is that why the tricorder can't scan you? Why we couldn't get a transporter lock?
KELLIN: We're impervious to those sort of devices.
CHAKOTAY: Your ships are cloaked as well.
KELLIN: When you live a covert existence, you develop technology to enhance it.
CHAKOTAY: But you say we've met before.
KELLIN: About a month ago. I spent several weeks here.
CHAKOTAY: Several weeks?
KELLIN: You and I worked closely together. You helped me a great deal. Then I left, knowing that you would forget everything about me.
CHAKOTAY: Then why did you come back? Why the battle? Why ask us for asylum?
KELLIN: I know you want everything in a nutshell. That's the way you work. But I have to tell you the whole story before it will make sense.
CHAKOTAY: Fine. I'm listening.
KELLIN: I came back because I fell in love with you.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: She comes from Ramura. It's a closed society that won't tolerate anybody trying to leave. Apparently, she was disenchanted with that and wanted out. They're trying to bring her back. That's why she's asking for asylum.
TUVOK: But you say that she claims she was on Voyager before this.
CHAKOTAY: About a month ago. She says she's a Tracer, a kind of bounty hunter who tracks down people who try to leave their world. She found a runaway hiding on Voyager.
KIM: She was here, but nobody remembers it?
CHAKOTAY: That's what she says, but I think we have to find a way to verify her story.
PARIS: I was looking at her ship. It uses a sophisticated polarisation technique that causes our sensor scans to pass right through it. She could have been shadowing us for quite a while.
KIM: And learnt enough about us to convince us she's been here before.
JANEWAY: But why? Why go to that trouble? And what about the battle with that other cloaked ship? She put herself in danger, when it would have been a lot easier simply to ask for asylum.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. But I think we have to make sure she doesn't have some hidden agenda. If she was here there should be some evidence of it. She said a computer virus was planted to wipe all references to her being here, but I have to believe we can at least turn up some evidence of tampering. Harry, Tuvok, Tom. Do the same with her ship. See if the navigational logs support what she's saying.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen. I agree we should take precautions, but you seem very suspicious of her.
CHAKOTAY: I want to make sure we're not being manipulated.
JANEWAY: I agree. If we grant her asylum, we'll be in the position of having to protect her. If we're going to commit to that, we should certainly find out if she's telling the truth. I'd appreciate your thoughts on that.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I have successfully downloaded the navigational logs from your vessel.
KELLIN: Good. Now compare them with your own logs over the last two months.
TUVOK: Display Voyager's route towards the Alpha Quadrant.
KELLIN: Now overlay my route. There, you see. Our ships travelled together for at least two weeks.
SEVEN: You could have falsified your navigational logs.
TUVOK: There's no proof that you ever came aboard Voyager.
KELLIN: That's what I always liked about you two. Such unyielding logic, such refreshing scepticism. Run a diagnostic on my logs. You'll find they haven't been altered.
(Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: How's it going?
TUVOK: Her story seems to be legitimate, but there are further steps to take.
CHAKOTAY: Then take them. I thought you might like to get something to eat, unless your memories of our mess hall aren't good.
KELLIN: As a matter of fact, I was quite fond of Neelix's food.
CHAKOTAY: Now that's something that's hard to believe.
(Chakotay and Kellin leave.)
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay's face became flushed as he spoke with her. What does that signify?
TUVOK: I'd rather not engage in speculation. It is a dangerous pastime.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: I think our guest will enjoy this, Commander. Fried soy meal, buttered carrots, and a delightful almond pudding.
KELLIN: Sounds wonderful.
CHAKOTAY: Very nice. Thanks, Neelix.
(They walk away from the counter with their trays.)
KELLIN: You were very diplomatic.
CHAKOTAY: Why do you say that?
KELLIN: You hate carrots, fried food upsets your stomach, and you refuse to eat pudding because you think it's slimy. Right?
CHAKOTAY: I'm curious. When you were here before you said we worked together, but you also said you were here to retrieve a runaway. How was I involved?
KELLIN: Aren't you more curious to hear about how we fell in love?
CHAKOTAY: We? You said you were in love with me. You didn't say I felt the same way.
KELLIN: If you hadn't returned the feelings, do you really think I would have taken such a terrible risk to get back to you?
CHAKOTAY: Let's take it one step at a time. How did you get on our ship?
KELLIN: That was easy. The hard part was looking for the runaway without anyone finding me. I managed two days on the ship before I triggered an intruder alert and lost my cloak.
CHAKOTAY: And then what happened?
KELLIN: And then I met you.

[Flashback - Cargo bay two]

(Kellin's personal cloak has failed and the alarm is sounding. She goes towards a noise and Chakotay jumps out behind her. They point weapons at eath other.)
CHAKOTAY: Wrong direction.
KELLIN: I don't want to hurt you. Put your weapon down.
CHAKOTAY: On my ship, I give the orders. Put yours down.
KELLIN: I don't mean you any harm. You have a stowaway on board. I'll retrieve him and we'll be on our way.
CHAKOTAY: That's not the way we do things here. Chakotay to Tuvok. I'm in cargo bay two. I have our intruder.
TUVOK [OC]: Understood, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're about to find yourself outnumbered. If you want to give me your weapon and explain what's going on, I'll listen.

[Mess hall]

KELLIN: I felt an attraction right away, but I couldn't afford to get distracted. I had work to do. And I didn't know if you felt it, too.
CHAKOTAY: What happened next?
KELLIN: You took me to Captain Janeway. I explained the situation. She didn't like the idea of a stowaway on her ship, so she told you and Tuvok to work with me to flush him out.
CHAKOTAY: And did we?
KELLIN: You keep trying to jump to the end. You're skipping all the parts about us.
CHAKOTAY: And you keep trying to talk about your feelings. I'd rather you stick to the events, not the emotions surrounding them.
KELLIN: Why? Does it make you uncomfortable?
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to play this game. I've been assigned to talk to you, to figure out whether or not you're telling the truth. Even if you are, I have no memory of meeting you, and I certainly have no memory of feeling anything for you. You might remember a relationship between us, but as far as I'm concerned, it didn't exist.
KELLIN: I see.
(She gets up and goes to the window. He follows.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. I just want to make it clear how I feel.
KELLIN: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: Is there anything I can do for you?
KELLIN: Can I have your pudding?
CHAKOTAY: Gladly.
KELLIN: Then you're forgiven.
(A big Whumph! sends her into his arms.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Chakotay and Kellin, report to the bridge immediately.
KELLIN: It's the Tracers. They've found me.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: We don't detect any ships. I'm assuming these are your people in cloaked vessels.
KELLIN: They've come to take me back.
JANEWAY: Harry, hail them.
KELLIN: They won't answer.
KIM: She's right, Captain. No response. Their weapons are going through our shields as if they weren't there.
JANEWAY: Match shields to the frequency of their particle beams.
KIM: No effect.
TUVOK: Shield strength down to twenty nine percent.
KELLIN: They'll keep firing until you surrender, or until I contact them and agree to come back.
JANEWAY: Do you still want to stay with us?
KELLIN: Yes.
JANEWAY: All right. Tom, get us our of here.
PARIS: That last volley damaged our propulsion systems. We have thrusters only.
KELLIN: Captain, if you'll let me have access to your sensor systems, I can modify then to detect the ships.
JANEWAY: Do it. This is the moment, Chakotay. Either we give her up or we fire back. Which one is it?
CHAKOTAY: Fire.
KELLIN: I think you might be able to detect them now, but only for a minute or two.
JANEWAY: Harry.
KIM: Affirmative. Two heavily armed ships off the port bow.
JANEWAY: Can we get them on screen?
KIM: That's the best I can do.
(Two fuzzy shapes shooting at them.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok, target their weapons systems.
TUVOK: Firing.
(The phasers take their cloaks offline, and the attacking ships go to warp.)
JANEWAY: Well done. Stand down Red alert. Well, it seems we've granted you asylum. Now you'll have to give some thought to what you want to do.
KELLIN: I'd prefer to remain on board.
JANEWAY: Consider that carefully. We're headed for the Alpha Quadrant. Before long, we will be so far from your world that if you change your mind, you wouldn't be able to get back.
KELLIN: I won't change my mind. But I must warn you. The Tracers won't give up that easily. Your ship is still at risk.
JANEWAY: Nothing we haven't faced before.
KELLIN: I was only able to make a temporary modification to your sensors. If you let me access your Astrometrics processors, I could make that modification permanent.
JANEWAY: You'll need a command officer with you to override the security lock-outs.
CHAKOTAY: I can do that, Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. Tom, coordinate with Engineering to get the propulsion systems back online.
PARIS: I'm on it, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]

CHAKOTAY: We'll have to climb up to deck ten. Is something wrong?
KELLIN: I can't relax until we're far enough away that they realise they can't get me back. And to my knowledge, that's never happened before.
CHAKOTAY: There's always a first time.
KELLIN: I have a high security clearance. They'll be afraid I'm going to do exactly what I'm about to do. Show you how to detect them.
CHAKOTAY: Look at it this way. If they do figure out we can spot them, they might realise they aren't going to be able to take you back.
KELLIN: You're such a kind person. That's what I remembered most. It's what made me turn around and come back. And sometime, you might be interested in hearing about our last night together.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Evening, Commander. Craving a late night snack?
CHAKOTAY: No. Something to help me sleep. Got any ideas?
NEELIX: I know humans think warm milk will do it. Frankly, I find it repulsive.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. What's available in the tea area?
NEELIX: Herbal is best. I have several Terran varieties, as well as some more exotic blends.
CHAKOTAY: Just mix me up whatever you think is the most relaxing.
NEELIX: Problems? Forgive me. I wasn't trying to pry.
CHAKOTAY: I know that. I'm just not sure how to answer you.
NEELIX: How's our guest adapting to life on Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: Quite well, I think.
NEELIX: She must be happy to be here.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure she is.
NEELIX: Forgive me, Commander, but sometimes it's best to be straightforward. It's obvious how she feels about you, to me at least. I see how she looks at you. Might that be the source of your consternation?
CHAKOTAY: She says she, or rather we, fell in love when she was here before. Since I can't remember any of that, I don't know if it's true. But somehow, it's hard to believe.
NEELIX: Why is that?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. It just doesn't seem like me. I'm still suspicious of her. I don't know if she's using me in some way just for her own purposes.
NEELIX: You don't trust her.
CHAKOTAY: Not really.
NEELIX: May I suggest that maybe it's yourself you don't trust, your own feelings that you're afraid of. Sweet dreams.

[Chakotay's quarters]

(Chakotay is drinking Neelix's herbal tea when the doorbell chimes. He gets up and opens it.)
KELLIN: I couldn't sleep. I need to talk to you. May I come in? I was just wondering if you still had doubts about me, or if you believe what I told you about us?
CHAKOTAY: Your story seems to have been verified. I believe you're telling the truth.
KELLIN: And the rest of it? What about us? I'm not one to hold back, as you may have noticed, so I'll get to the point. I came here because of you. I knew you wouldn't remember me, but I was sure we could regain the feelings we had before. They were there. They were real. But now I'm not so sure. My being here puts this ship at risk. It's better for everyone if I go back to Ramura. So please be honest. If you feel nothing for me, just tell me, and I'll leave.
CHAKOTAY: Don't go.
(Later, they are laughing together.)
KELLIN: It's called ice cream?
CHAKOTAY: I'm surprised you didn't have any the last time you were here.
KELLIN: I could eat this every day.
CHAKOTAY: Then you should.
KELLIN: Voyager's a very powerful ship, and very fast.
CHAKOTAY: We've met people with ships that are faster and more powerful, but Voyager's always managed to be a match for the best of them.
KELLIN: Ramuran vessels are fast. They could stay up with this ship.
CHAKOTAY: Kellin, we'll keep you safe. That's a promise.
KELLIN: A Tracer never goes home empty-handed. The disgrace would be too great. When I was here before, I'd been tracking that man for almost a year.
CHAKOTAY: But you know all the tricks. You can use them against anyone who tries to come after you. You said you were going to tell me about our last night together.
KELLIN: Let me show you. You were sitting here, in this chair, and I was here. And we were drinking something with bubbles.
CHAKOTAY: Champagne?
KELLIN: Yes, I wanted to celebrate. I'd caught my runaway that day with your help.
CHAKOTAY: How was that?
KELLIN: You came up with the idea of using a magneton sweep to disrupt his polarisation cloak. We knew he'd be watching me closely so we tricked him.

[Flashback - Transporter room]

CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry you didn't get your fugitive.
KELLIN: He must have jumped to another ship while Voyager was in orbit of Mikah last week. I'll find him eventually.
CHAKOTAY: If you think we can be of any more help, let me know.
KELLIN: Thank you, Commander. This is my problem. I'll handle it from now on. Just beam me back to my ship and I'll backtrack to Mikah. Goodbye, and thank you again.
CHAKOTAY: Ready to energise.
(Instead, he triggers the magneton sweep, and a man appears.)
KELLIN: Hello, Resket. You were a real challenge.
CHAKOTAY: I haven't had the chance to welcome you to Voyager. Too bad you'll be leaving so soon.

[Chakotay's quarters]

KELLIN: We put him in the brig. Once I used the neurolytic emitter on him, he was only too happy to be going home again.
CHAKOTAY: Neurolytic emitter?
KELLIN: We use it on runaways. It wipes their memories of the outside world.
CHAKOTAY: So we were celebrating?
KELLIN: You'd become much more than a friend to me, but I knew I had to go home, and you'd forget about me within hours. So I took the initiative.
CHAKOTAY: More than usual?
KELLIN: Oh, yes. I moved closer to you. I thanked you profusely for all your help, told you that I couldn't have done it without you, and I touched you. I told you I, I cared very much for you and that I wanted something to remember you by. And then I did this.
(Kellin kisses Chakotay. Twice.)
KELLIN: That's when I knew you felt the same way, But it didn't matter because I still had to go.
CHAKOTAY: But now you don't.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: If Kellin's going to be with us, the captain wants her to serve a function, to contribute in some way.
TUVOK: A reasonable expectation. What are her skills?
CHAKOTAY: Basically, she was a security operative for her people. She's a trained expert in weaponry, surveillance, fighting skills. Any idea where she might fit in?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix could use an assistant in the mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, that was a joke. Don't deny it. You were trying to be funny.
TUVOK: If you choose to interpret my remark as humorous, that is your decision.
CHAKOTAY: I do, and it was.
TUVOK: It's perfectly logical. All the qualities you mentioned would help in defending Neelix against the periodic wrath of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but don't you think she'd be better off as a member of your security detail?
TUVOK: Perhaps. I'll assign her to a team and let her observe for a week. At the end of that time I'll evaluate her situation.
CHAKOTAY: Good enough.
TUVOK: Commander, I've been giving some thought to the fact that the Ramuran ships might be in pursuit and could attack us again.
CHAKOTAY: I've given that some thought myself.
TUVOK: Their proton weapons were particularly effective against us. If Kellin would work with Seven and Ensign Kim, perhaps we could devise a strategy to defend ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure she'll be happy to do that.
TUVOK: Have her report to Astrometrics at thirteen hundred hours.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I've downloaded data from our tactical logs. You can access it from this console.
KELLIN: Our weapons are proton based particle beams, very tightly focused.
KIM: It's like being hit with thousands of needles.
KELLIN: They can penetrate any shield even if the modulations are changed.
KIM: Very clever.
KELLIN: No defence has ever stopped these weapons.
KIM: Then maybe we're about to make history.
KELLIN: You've found a way to counteract them?
KIM: I think so. The trick is to scatter those beams a little, make it harder for them to penetrate the shields. I think we could do that by tying the baryon sensors into deflector control. Here's what I have in mind. Why don't you look this over and let me know what you think?
(Kellin takes the PADD.)
KELLIN: I'll do it right away.
KIM: By the way, I hear Chakotay recommended you to Tuvok to serve on a security detail.
KELLIN: I want to help out in some way.
KIM: A word of advice. Volunteer for beta squad. They're the best team. You'll learn a lot from them.
KELLIN: I will. Thank you.
(Kellin leaves.)
SEVEN: When you mentioned Commander Chakotay's name, she flushed. He did the same when he saw her.
KIM: What are you saying?
SEVEN: I suspect the Commander and Kellin are engaged in a courtship ritual. It seems an unnecessary and complicated precursor to the act of procreation.
KIM: I know you think so, but trust me, some people need those rituals.
SEVEN: Explain.
KIM: It's, it's usually considered a good idea if two people get to know each other a little before they become intimate.
SEVEN: Why is that?
KIM: Because it's more comfortable. You spend some time together, you laugh, you talk. That makes it easier to, to get closer.
SEVEN: But the end result is the same, is it not?
KIM: Well, I guess so.
SEVEN: Then I fail to see what is accomplished by all the talk.
KIM: Seven, if you don't get it, then I can't explain it to you.
SEVEN: Obviously.
(Kellin walks down corridors, clearly feeling that she is being followed. When she enters her quarters, there is a broken glass on the table.)

[Chakotay's quarters]

KELLIN: I should have known. They must have gotten somebody on board during the battle.
CHAKOTAY: You're jumping to conclusions.
KELLIN: No. There's a Tracer. He's here. He's come for me. That broken vase was a warning.
CHAKOTAY: We'll protect you. I'm not going to let anything happen to you.
KELLIN: It's too late.
CHAKOTAY: No. We can use the same magneton sweep we used to flush out Resket. We'll find this one and send him on his way.
(The Tracer decloaks.)
CURNETH: I'm afraid I can't let that happen.
KELLIN: Curneth, don't.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Security. Intruder alert, my quarters.
KELLIN: Please, I beg you, don't do this.
CURNETH: You know better than to ask that, Kellin.
KELLIN: No!
(Curneth shines a beam in Kellin's face.)
CHAKOTAY: Drop it. Drop it!
CURNETH: You're too late. She's already beginning to forget everything that's happened here.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says there's nothing he can do. Your recent memories have already begun to fade.
KELLIN: Don't let this happen, please. Don't let this happen.
CHAKOTAY: Do you have any idea how we can reverse the effect?
KELLIN: Promise me. If I forget why I'm here, if I forget you, do what I did and you tell me all about us, and you'll help me to remember.
CHAKOTAY: I will, but I'm going to try to do more than that.

[Brig]

CHAKOTAY: Can the effects of the neurolytic emitter be reversed?
CURNETH: Reversed? I have no idea. As far as I know, no one's ever tried.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll be the first. Tell me how the emitter works. How it affects the memory centres.
CURNETH: You sound desperate, Commander. Does Kellin mean that much to you?
CHAKOTAY: What you're doing is wrong. She wants to stay here.
CURNETH: This is futile. Even if I knew how the emitter works, I wouldn't tell you.
(Chakotay steps into the cell and grabs Curneth's collar. They stare at each other for a few moments, then he releases Curneth.)
CHAKOTAY: You have no right to do this.
CURNETH: I have every right. The laws on our world are very specific about that. No one may leave. No one may reveal anything about us to the outside world. Kellin has violated both of those edicts. Returning her will serve as a deterrent to others who might think of leaving.
CHAKOTAY: Did it ever occur to you that the fact that so many people want to leave might mean that there's something wrong with your society?
CURNETH: We have a strong and cohesive society because of our efforts to keep it that way. A few runaways among millions hardly indicates a problem.
CHAKOTAY: If there are so few, why not let them go?
CURNETH: That would suggest that we don't care about them. What a terrible message.
CHAKOTAY: You may have wiped her memory, but Kellin's not going back.
CURNETH: Maybe we should wait and see if that's what happens.
CHAKOTAY: She made it clear to me that she wants to stay here. So maybe you should start practising what you're going to tell your superiors.

[Kellin's quarters]

(Doorbell.)
KELLIN: Yes?
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor told me he'd released you. How are you feeling?
KELLIN: I'm fine. Do I know you?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. At least, you did.
KELLIN: You'll have to forgive me but, I don't remember how I got here or anything else that's happened in at least the past few weeks.
CHAKOTAY: I know.
KELLIN: I hope I wasn't throwing things in a fit of rage.
CHAKOTAY: No.
KELLIN: I assume a Tracer is here to take me back?
CHAKOTAY: That's right, but. What I'm going to say will sound strange, but it's what you asked me to do before you lost your memories. You came here about a month ago, looking for a runaway. After you left with him, you decided to come back.
KELLIN: But if I finished my assignment, why would I come back here?
CHAKOTAY: Because you'd fallen in love with me.
KELLIN: Forgive me. You're certainly attractive, but what you're telling me seems very unlikely.
CHAKOTAY: But it's what happened. We started to work together and I began to realise how unique you are. Before long, I couldn't get you out of my mind.
KELLIN: Are you saying that you fell in love with me as well?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. And then we realised the Tracer was on board. After he used the emitter on you, you made me promise to tell you all of this, so you would know what happened between us.
KELLIN: This is a little unsettling. What is it you want from me?
CHAKOTAY: Kellin, don't go back with the Tracer. Stay here for a while, at least for a few days. We can get to know each other again.
KELLIN: I honestly can't imagine what would be served by that. I have to go home.
CHAKOTAY: If you stayed, you might change your mind.
KELLIN: Then that's all the more reason that I should leave now. I've violated one of our most important edicts, and I wouldn't want to make that mistake again. I wish, I wish we had met under different circumstances.

[Transporter room]

(The Tracer's ship decloaks.)
CHAKOTAY: Your ship's ready.
KELLIN: Thank you, Commander.
CURNETH: I've implanted a computer virus to eliminate any reference to our being here. By tomorrow afternoon, you'll have forgotten everything. It will be as though we never existed. It's better that way.
KELLIN: You're such a kind person. I won't forget that.
CHAKOTAY: I wish you both the best.
(He gives Curneth his neurolytic emitter back.)
CHAKOTAY: Energise.

First Officer's personal log, Stardate 51813.4. Maybe it would be best, as the Tracer said, to forget about Kellin and the time she spent here. But I don't want to do that. I want to remember.

[Mess hall]

(Chakotay is writing a journal the old-fashioned way.)
NEELIX: More coffee, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: No, thanks. I'm almost done.
NEELIX: Strange to see you using those ancient writing implements.
CHAKOTAY: It's the only way I could get a permanent record of what's happened in the last few days. I want to get it down before I forget it all.
NEELIX: I'm sorry things didn't work out for you.
CHAKOTAY: I've been trying to make sense of it. I fell in love with her twice. I thought she could do the same. We were the same two people on the same ship. Why didn't it happen again? I keep going over and over our last conversation, trying to think if there was something I could have said, could have done, but nothing comes to mind.
NEELIX: Commander, I don't think you can analyse love. It's the greatest mystery of all. No one knows why it happens or doesn't. Love is a chance combination of elements. Any one thing might be enough to keep it from igniting. A mood, a glance, a remark. And if we could define love, predict it, it would probably lose its power. I'll let you finish.
CHAKOTAY: Good night.


S4 E23
Living Witness
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 29 April 1998

[Pseudo Ready room]
(Janeway's hair is swept back and she is wearing a black roll-neck top beneath her uniform, and black leather gloves. Her words are sinister and there is no comm. badge.)
pJANEWAY: When diplomacy fails there's only one alternative. Violence. Force must be applied without apology. It's the Starfleet way.
DALETH: Then our philosophies are in agreement. Will you help us?
pJANEWAY: You're asking me to fight your war, destroy your enemy.
DALETH: I'm asking you to intimidate the Kyrians with your technology. Help me capture their leader. This ship has superior firepower. He won't risk a conflict with you.
pJANEWAY: We risk life and limb so your people can annex Kyrian land. Sounds like a good deal for you. What do we get?
DALETH: A way home.
pJANEWAY: You know more about Voyager than you've let on.
DALETH: Your reputation in this quadrant precedes you. That's why we sought you out.
pJANEWAY: I'm listening.
DALETH: There's a cyclic wormhole five days journey from here. We know where it is, and we can help you stabilise it.
pJANEWAY: If you're lying.
DALETH: How far do you have to go? Sixty thousand light years?
pJANEWAY: I want all tactical data regarding your little war. Kyrian defences, position of your own forces, everything.
DALETH: You'll have it within the hour.

[Pseudo Bridge]

(A Kazon walks through with a phaser rifle. Neelix is in uniform at Tactical.)
pNEELIX: Eight Kyrian fighter ships approaching.
pJANEWAY: Arm the assault probes. Fire at will. Hail them.
pTUVOK: Channel open.
pJANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the warship Voyager. Break off your attack, or I'll destroy you.
pTUVOK: They are not responding.
pPARIS: They're returning fire. Shields are holding.
pJANEWAY: Chakotay, any luck tracking down their leader?
(Chakotay has a different tattoo, one that extends all down the left side of his face. Every pronounces his name without the emphasis on the middle syllable.)
pCHAKOTAY: Not yet. We think Tedran has go-ne into hiding.
pJANEWAY: I thought he might. We'll have to flush him out.
DALETH: What do you suggest?
pJANEWAY: Biogenic weapons. We'll infect the most populated Kyrian territories. The Doctor's nearly done working on the weapon.
DALETH: Our conflict is with Tedran himself, not his people. They're innocent.
pJANEWAY: The best way to bring down a ruler is to make his people suffer.
DALETH: Captain
pJANEWAY: This is no time for half-measures. You wanted victory. You're going to get it. Bridge to Sickbay. Status?

[Pseudo Sickbay]

(This EMH is an android, like Data.)
pEMH: We have established a datalink between my neural net and the phaser array. I am reconfiguring the beam to carry a bio-agent into the planet's atmosphere
pJANEWAY [OC]: When will it be ready?
pEMH: It is ready now, Captain.

[Pseudo Bridge]

pTUVOK: Phasers are online.
pJANEWAY: Target the first city. And fire.
(The warship Voyager is bristling with gun turrets. The image freezes.)

[Museum]

QUARREN: The warship Voyager. One of the most powerful vessels of its time. Armed with photonic torpedoes and particle weapons, this ship of destruction could wipe out an entire civilisation within hours. On this particular day in history, we were lucky. The death toll could have been much worse. By the time Voyager targeted our major cities, Tedran had already begun an evacuation. Thousands of lives were saved. Unfortunately, it was only the beginning of Captain Janeway's onslaught. As you'll see, her actions would have a lasting effect on our world. Even today, seven hundred years later, we are still feeling the impact of the Voyager encounter. Before we continue the simulation, I'd like to answer any questions you might have.
KYRIAN VISITOR: I'm curious about Voyager itself. How many people were on board?
QUARREN: We believe they had a complement of over three hundred soldiers.
KYRIAN VISITOR: Did they attack other worlds as well?
QUARREN: Well, we aren't certain. Records of Voyager's travels through our quadrant are incomplete, but it's safe to assume that they interfered with many other cultures, yes.
KYRIAN VISITOR: Tell us more about the Borg drones they kept on the ship.
QUARREN: Voyager had many weapons at their disposal, including species they'd assimilated along the way. Borg, Talaxian, Kazon. They were captured and made to work as part of Voyager's fighting force. Let's resume the simulation, and you can see for yourself. It's a few hours after the initial bombardment. Janeway and her squadron are on the bridge mounting their assault. Now, what you are about to see is graphic and unsettling.

[Pseudo Bridge]

pJANEWAY: Status. Status!
pNEELIX: Approximately three thousand Kyrians dead.
pJANEWAY: That's it?
pTUVOK: The bio-agent is still dispersing through the atmosphere. The fatality rate will be three hundred thousand soon enough.
pJANEWAY: How soon?
pTUVOK: Best guess, one hour.
pJANEWAY: Why do you always keep me waiting, Tuvok?
pTUVOK: My apologies. Preparing to fire again.
pJANEWAY: Double the yield,
DALETH: Captain, don't you think that's excessive?
pJANEWAY: You picked a bad time to have second thoughts, Ambassador.
DALETH: I want them defeated but, but this is genocide!
pJANEWAY: Defeat? Genocide? Why quibble with semantics?
DALETH: This wasn't our agreement.
pJANEWAY: We're going to defeat the Kyrians, and you're going to keep up your end of the bargain.
(Whumph!)
pJANEWAY: Ensign, confine this gentleman to the brig. I'll let you know when it's over.
(The Kazon takes Daleth away.)
pPARIS: Three more Kyrian vessels approaching.
pJANEWAY: Evade them.
pPARIS: Aye, aye, sir.

[Pseudo Interrogation Room]

(Chakotay and Kim are hitting a Kyrian in what used to be the Medical lab.)
pCHAKOTAY: The location.
pKIM: Look, I can keep this up all day. Tell the Commander what he wants to know. Maybe I can't keep this up all day.
pCHAKOTAY: I'm a man of peace. My native people are enlightened, non-violent, much like your own. I'm saddened that this has happened to you. If we can work together maybe we can end this conflict.
pKIM: Stand aside, Chakotay. Let me hit him.
pEMH: That hyperspanner would cause an unacceptable level of damage. I remind you, he must still be able to speak.
pKIM: What do you have in mind?
pEMH: This neural solvent. A clean and efficient inducer of pain. Far more effective than your crude attempts at persuasion.
(The evil EMH injects the Kyrian.)
pEMH: No doubt you are experiencing a tingling sensation behind your eyes. The chemical is dissolving your optic nerves.
pCHAKOTAY: I'll ask you again. Where is Tedran?
pEMH: The pain will increase exponentially until your cerebral cortex begins to liquefy. I can reverse the process, if ordered to do so.
pCHAKOTAY: And I want to give that order. But you have to tell me. Where is Tedran?

[Pseudo Bridge]

pCHAKOTAY: He's here, at these coordinates.
pJANEWAY: Assuming our prisoner told you the truth.
pCHAKOTAY: Oh, believe me, he was very cooperative at the end.
pJANEWAY: Neelix?
pNEELIX: I'm reading a fortified compound one point six kilometres below the surface.
pJANEWAY: Chakotay, you and Tuvok take an assault team and find Tedran. Make sure he's escorted safely to Voyager.
pCHAKOTAY: Yes, sir.
(Whump!)
pJANEWAY: What now?
pPARIS: Intruders. Four Kyrians just beamed into the engine room.
pJANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Respond.
pNEELIX: They've erected forcefields. Our soldiers can't get in.
pJANEWAY: They've left me no choice. Computer, initiate the Borg activation sequence.
COMPUTER: Sequence in progress.
(This computer has a male voice.)

[Pseudo Cargo Bay two]

(A full Borg wakes in an alcove.)
pJANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Seven of Nine.
pSEVEN: State your instructions.
pJANEWAY [OC]: A group of Kyrians

[Pseudo Bridge]

pJANEWAY: Is in the Engine Room. Stop them.

[Pseudo Cargo Bay two]

pSEVEN: We understand.
(Pseudo Seven activates three more Borg drones.)

[Pseudo Engineering]

(They beam into Engineering and deal with the Kyrians very quickly.)
pSEVEN: Resistance is futile.

[Pseudo Bridge]

pSEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to the bridge. The Kyrian threat has been neutralised.
pJANEWAY: Acknowledged.
pSEVEN [OC]: Two of the Kyrians are still alive. What shall we do with them?
pJANEWAY: Well, you've been wanting to expand your fighting force. Assimilate them.

[Pseudo Engineering]

pSEVEN: We understand.

[Pseudo Bridge]

pKIM: I just received word from the attack team.
pJANEWAY: Good news, Lieutenant?
pKIM: Very. They've captured Tedran and one of his aides. They're heading back to Voyager.
pJANEWAY: Take them to chamber nineteen and get the Vaskan ambassador. This is one negotiation he won't want to miss.

[Pseudo Chamber Nineteen]

(An empty mess hall. An elegant man and woman in long robes are there, along with the pseudo EMH and Daleth.)
pJANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
TEDRAN: I appreciate your hospitality. Are all your guests treated so well?
pJANEWAY: It's not every day that we receive such an important visitor. The great Tedran. A man of wisdom and peace. A servant of his people. Well, your people need you now more than ever.
TEDRAN: State your demands.
pJANEWAY: Tell your forces to stand down, and I'll call off my attack.
TEDRAN: I understand what the Vaskans want. More of our territory, more resources. But what do you want, Captain? Why are you doing this to us?
pJANEWAY: He's offered my crew a way home.
TEDRAN: To reach your home, you would destroy ours?
pJANEWAY: That's right. And you'd do the same in my position.
TEDRAN: No, I would not.
pJANEWAY: Spoken like a true martyr. You're very enlightened. But are you so proud that you'd let your people die before you'd humble yourself?
(Tedran and his lady are pushed to their knees.)
pJANEWAY: Tell them to surrender.
TEDRAN: (to Daleth) You have shamed us all. We could've ended this on our own, peacefully, without her.
pJANEWAY: Surrender.
TEDRAN: No.
(Pseudo Janeway takes a phaser rifle and shoots the woman in the back.)
TEDRAN: We will prevail.
(She kills Tedran, too.)
pJANEWAY: Don't look so shocked, Ambassador. This is what you wanted, isn't it?

[Museum]

QUARREN: The ensuing conflict was brief but brutal. Two million Kyrians slaughtered within days. The warship Voyager continued on its way, leaving the Kyrian dynasty in ruins. The Vaskan leaders proceeded to occupy our lands, forcing my people into subservience. It took centuries for us to undo the damage that Captain Janeway had done, and the Kyrian struggle for equality is far from over. This simulation and this museum are a testament to that struggle. I hope you found your experience here worthwhile. If you'd like to learn more about Voyager and its role in the history of our planet, I suggest you explore the rest of this exhibit. Thank you for your time.
(One of the exhibits is a photon torpedo case clearly labelled U.S.S. Voyager. Later, a Vaskan man has his fingers in the torpedo's controls.)
QUARREN: Please, feel free to test the simulators. I wouldn't touch that if I were you. One of the Voyager's torpedoes. Twenty five isoton yield. It could destroy an entire city within seconds. It's been inactive for centuries but you never know. I'm only teasing, but please be careful. If we damage any of these relics they can never be replaced. The history of our people should be respected.
VASKAN VISITOR: I have a question about that history.
QUARREN: Please.
VASKAN VISITOR: How can you prove that it's true?
QUARREN: Take a closer look. The evidence is all around you.
VASKAN VISITOR: Some musty fossils and a recreation? That doesn't prove anything.
QUARREN: I disagree.
VASKAN VISITOR: You're trying to blame the Vaskans for all your troubles the way you always do. I don't have a problem with your species. I have Kyrian friends. But I don't appreciate seeing my people being portrayed as villains in your little simulation, and I certainly don't want your history taught to my children.
QUARREN: You'd better get used to the idea, because we've just uncovered an artefact that's going to confirm everything you've seen here. Three weeks ago our research team found a data storage device buried nine metres beneath the ruins at Kesef. I've confirmed that it came from Voyager.
VASKAN VISITOR: Another fossil.
QUARREN: The device contains active data. Possibly crew logs, even Captain Janeway's personal almanac. In the next few days, we could be hearing Voyager's version of these events in their own words.
VASKAN VISITOR: And what if those words tell a different story? What then?
QUARREN: We will change our views accordingly.
VASKAN VISITOR: I'm sure you will.
(The Vaskan leaves.)
QUARREN: I apologise. Please, enjoy the rest of your visit.

[Museum - night]

QUARREN: Activate recreation, the Voyager Encounter. Display Engine Room.
(Quarren goes into the recreation with a box.)

[Pseudo Engineering]

(He sits at a console and presses his comm. badge.)
QUARREN: Begin dictation. I'm resuming work on artefact two seven one, the Voyager data storage device. I've decided to try using period tools from the simulation itself. With any luck, they'll be more compatible. Hmm. There's far more data here than I expected. Seems more like a programme of some sort. Yes. Yes, it's an optronic datastream. A hologram.
(He gets the hologram to flicker into existence.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
QUARREN: I recognise you. You're Voyager's doctor.
EMH: What am I doing in Engineering? Where's my mobile emitter?
QUARREN: You're not an android.
EMH: Of course not. What are you talking about? A Kyrian. Doctor to the bridge, intruder alert. Security to Engineering.
(The EMH tries using a console.)
QUARREN: You won't have much luck with that. Nothing in here is real. It's a simulation.
EMH: A holodeck?
QUARREN: No. You're in the Museum of Kyrian Heritage.
EMH: You've stolen my programme. How?
QUARREN: Please, let me try to explain.
EMH: Try quickly.
QUARREN: You are a hologram.
EMH: That I know.
QUARREN: I just discovered your programme inside this data storage device.
EMH: That's the EMH backup module. One of your attack parties must have taken it from Sickbay.
QUARREN: Actually, we found it at the ruins at Kesef. I know this will be difficult for you to accept, but a great deal of time has passed since Voyager encountered the Kyrians.
EMH: How much time?
QUARREN: Seven hundred years, give or take a decade. We're not certain.
EMH: I don't believe you.
QUARREN: Think about it. When your programme is inactive, a moment or a millennium are the same to you.
EMH: Seven hundred years? What about my ship? What happened to my crew?
QUARREN: No one knows. It's safe to say they're long dead.
EMH: And I'm some sort of fossil?
QUARREN: No, not a fossil. A witness. A living witness to history. There's so much we don't know about what happened. But you saw it, you lived through those times. You helped to shape them. Doctor, you could be the most important discovery of all time.
EMH: No. This is impossible.
QUARREN: Doctor.
EMH: I don't believe you!
QUARREN: Doctor!
(The EMH runs out of the simulation.)

[Museum]

EMH: What's going to happen to me now? Will you put me on display? The holographic Rip van Winkle?
QUARREN: I'm not sure.
EMH: I want to try to contact Starfleet, if there still is a Starfleet.
QUARREN: That will have to wait.
EMH: Wait for what?
QUARREN: There are other issues to be resolved.
EMH: What kind of issues?
QUARREN: You're the Voyager doctor. A lot of people are going to have questions. On our world, artificial lifeforms are considered sentient and responsible for their actions. You might have to face charges.
EMH: Charges?
QUARREN: For your crimes. You designed the bio-weapons that killed eight million Kyrians.
EMH: I did nothing of the sort.
QUARREN: All of our evidence shows that you were a war criminal.
EMH: Evidence? What evidence? Like this, for example? Triple-armoured hull? Thirty torpedo tubes? Twenty five phaser banks? This isn't what our ship looked like.
QUARREN: We reconstructed it from a partial schematic found in the Cyrik ocean, which was badly damaged by corrosion. We were bound to get a few details wrong.
EMH: Voyager wasn't a warship. We were explorers.
QUARREN: Yes, I know. Trying to get home, to Mars.
EMH: Earth! You see, you couldn't even get that right. This is a nightmare. What if I'm found guilty? What's going to happen to me?
QUARREN: That's up to the Arbiters, but I imagine the penalty would be severe. Your programme could be de-compiled.
EMH: You've got to believe me. To you, this may be ancient history. To me, it's yesterday. You called me a living witness. Well, at least give me the chance to set the record straight. I want to see your version of what happened.

[Pseudo Briefing room]

pPARIS: We've already drained two phaser banks, and he hasn't hit anything.
pTUVOK: If you looked at your console once in a while instead of chasing the female ensigns, you'd see otherwise.
pKIM: Tom's right. This war was supposed to be over in five minutes.
pCHAKOTAY: You have a better idea, Lieutenant?
pPARIS: As a matter of fact I do. Fighter shuttles. A direct assault.
pNEELIX: Led by you? Good luck.
pPARIS: Watch your mouth, hedgehog.
pCHAKOTAY: I haven't heard a single good idea.
pPARIS: Well, then propose something, First Officer. Earn your rank for once.
(The EMH watches open-mouthed as pseudo Chakotay and pseudo Paris fight.)
pJANEWAY: Gentlemen. Gentlemen!
(Pseudo Janeway shoots her hand phaser at a wall screen. The fight stops.)
pJANEWAY: Save it for the holodeck. We've got a war to fight. We've only been attacking the Kyrian military installations. A mistake. We should target the general population.
pEMH: Excellent idea, Captain. I have examined the Kyrian genome and they would be vulnerable to any number of biological weapons.
pJANEWAY: How soon could you have one ready?
pEMH: Within the hour.
pJANEWAY: Dismissed.
EMH: Pure fiction. This is absurd.
QUARREN: Halt recreation. This is a reasonable extrapolation from historic record. But if you'd like to point out any inconsistencies.
EMH: Inconsistencies? I don't know where to begin. Granted, this looks like the briefing room but these aren't the people I knew. No one behaved like this. Well, aside from Mister Paris. We weren't at each other's throats. We didn't talk about how to destroy planets. We helped people. We were an enlightened crew.
QUARREN: Are you denying these events took place?
EMH: Yes.
QUARREN: Are you saying you never got involved with the conflict between my people and the Vaskans?
EMH: Yes! Well, no, we did get involved, but it was nothing like this.
QUARREN: Elaborate.
EMH: There was a meeting in this room, but it wasn't about battle tactics. It was about a dilemma we were facing. We had negotiated a trade agreement with the Vaskans. We were dealing with a representative, Ambassador
QUARREN: Ambassador Daleth.
EMH: Daleth. Exactly. Everything was going according to plan until we were attacked. By your people, the Kyrians. They'd picked that moment to start a war and we were caught in the middle.
QUARREN: The Kyrians were the aggressors? No, no. That can't be right.
EMH: Captain Janeway called this meeting to figure out how we could extricate ourselves from the conflict and still maintain the trade agreement with the Vaskans. But we weren't on their side, and we certainly never attacked you.
QUARREN: Save your objections until you see the entire recreation. Let's continue.

[Pseudo Chamber 19]

(After pseudo Janeway has killed the woman.)
pTEDRAN: We will prevail.
(She kills Tedran.)
pJANEWAY: Don't look so shocked, Ambassador. This is what you wanted, isn't it?
EMH: Somewhere, halfway across the galaxy I hope, Captain Janeway is spinning in her grave. You've portrayed us as monsters. The Captain's a cold-blooded killer, the crew's a gang of thugs and I'm a mass murderer.
QUARREN: Calm yourself.
EMH: Why should I? I'm about to be hanged for crimes I didn't commit!
QUARREN: Tell me your version of events.
EMH: I remember this man.
QUARREN: Tedran. He was a martyr to our people.
EMH: Some martyr. He led the Kyrian attack against Voyager.
QUARREN: You're lying.
EMH: I was there.
QUARREN: You're trying to protect yourself.
EMH: And so are you. From the truth. Isn't it a coincidence that the Kyrians are being portrayed in the best possible light? Martyrs, heroes, saviours. Obviously, events have been reinterpreted to make your people feel better about themselves. Revisionist history. It's such a comfort.
QUARREN: We were not the aggressors in the Great War, we were the victims. The proof can be found anywhere on this world. The Kyrian people are being oppressed to this day.
EMH: The problems in your society are none of my business. I'm just telling you what I saw seven hundred years ago.
QUARREN: I don't believe you, and neither will anyone else.
EMH: What are you doing?
QUARREN: Shutting down your programme.
EMH: Wait, please. I can prove to you I'm right. The medical tricorder, the artefact you have on display. If you just let me
(Quarren deactivates the EMH.)
QUARREN: Lies.

[Quarren's home]

QUARREN: Begin dictation. I've re-examined the data module. From what I can tell, the Doctor was telling the truth, at least about one thing. He is a hologram. A backup programme. We always knew he was an artificial lifeform but, we thought he was an android. If we were mistaken about that, I wonder if we might also be wrong about Voyager itself. Another question. Why would a hologram designed for medical purposes be programmed to lie so readily? From the moment I activated him, this Doctor has insisted that he's innocent. At first I didn't believe him. End dictation.

[Museum]

(Next day, Quarren returns to his museum and looks at the medical tricorder they have on display.)
QUARREN: Activate recreation, the Voyager encounter. Display medical chamber.

[pseudo Sickbay]

EMH: Please state the nature of the medical. Oh, it's you.
QUARREN: You've given me a lot to think about.
EMH: Really? I thought you'd heard enough of my lies.
QUARREN: I judged you too quickly. I'm sorry.
EMH: What changed your mind?
QUARREN: Time to think.
EMH: For your information, I don't appreciate being deactivated in the middle of a sentence. It brings back unpleasant memories.
QUARREN: It won't happen again.
EMH: Good, because if you don't stop treating me like a second-class hologram, I won't cooperate with your investigation. I'm perfectly happy to lie dormant in that module for a few eons.
QUARREN: I didn't come here to argue.
EMH: Then what do you want?
QUARREN: I don't know. To talk, I guess, about what really happened seven hundred years ago.
EMH: Are you sure you're willing to listen to a mass-murderer like me?
QUARREN: I'm willing to keep an open mind. That's the most I can promise. Try to understand my point of view. All my life, I thought I knew the truth. There was never any doubt.
EMH: I never meant to throw your beliefs into doubt, but I can't deny what I know to be true.
QUARREN: I realise that now, and I want to know the truth. And I want the Arbiters to know it, too.
EMH: Well, the stage is certainly set, but I'll have to rewrite the characters and revise the plot a little. I'm quite adept in the art of holographic programming. If you'll give me access to your technology, maybe I can create a simulation of own. Show you what happened.

[Pseudo Ready room]

(This time, in the correct uniform and hair style.)
pJANEWAY: Don't worry, Ambassador. We've got plenty of medical supplies and we'd be more than happy to share them with you.
DALETH: Then we agree. In exchange, we'll provide you with as much dilithium as you need.
pJANEWAY: That's very generous, Ambassador
DALETH: I'll transport the canisters immediately. It would be in your best interest to make this exchange quickly.
pJANEWAY: Oh? Why's that?
DALETH: We've been conflict with a neighbouring species, the Kyrians. They've been threatening to attack us. War could break out any day. We've tried every diplomatic option, but the Kyrians are a violent, stubborn people.
pJANEWAY: No problem. I understand what you're going through.
DALETH: I wish I could make you one of our diplomats. You might have better luck resolving this situation.
pJANEWAY: Under different circumstances. Janeway to Sickbay.

[Pseudo Sickbay]

pEMH: This is the Doctor.
pJANEWAY [OC]: Ambassador Daleth and I have reached an agreement.

[Pseudo Ready room]

pJANEWAY: Assemble the medical supplies.
pEMH [OC]: Done, Captain. The supplies are in Cargo Bay one.
pJANEWAY: Once we transport the supplies to the surface there may be a
(Whumph!)
pTUVOK [OC]: Red alert. Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Pseudo Bridge]

pTUVOK: We're being fired on by three ships.
DALETH: The Kyrians.
pJANEWAY: Hail them.
pTUVOK: Channel open.
pJANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We are not your enemies. Please break off your attack.
pTUVOK: They're not responding.
DALETH: I'd advise you to retreat, Captain.
pKIM: Shields down to eight six percent.
pJANEWAY: Break out of orbit. Put some distance between us.
pPARIS: Yes, ma'am.
pTUVOK: Four intruders. They are in Engineering.
pJANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. B'Elanna, respond. Tuvok.

[Pseudo Engineering]

TEDRAN: Take as much of their technology as you can.
pSEVEN: You will fail.
(Tuvok and his security team enter. Tedran takes Seven as a hostage.)
pTUVOK: Drop your weapons.
TEDRAN: Back away.
(Tuvok does so. Tedran and his team leave with Seven and a crewman.)

[Pseudo Bridge]

pTUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway.
pJANEWAY: Go ahead.
pTUVOK [OC]:The Kyrians have killed

[Pseudo Engineering]

pTUVOK: Three of the engineering crew. They've taken Seven of Nine and one of the injured crew members hostage.

[Pseudo Bridge]

pTUVOK [OC]: They're now on deck two, section thirty two.
pJANEWAY: Acknowledged. Remember your offer to make me a diplomat? Well, it looks like I don't have much of a choice. Tell the doctor we have casualties. Have him meet us on deck two.

[Pseudo Corridor]

pJANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. We're approaching section thirty one.
pTUVOK [OC]: The evacuation of deck two is complete.
pJANEWAY: Send three security teams to this deck, then seal all the access points.
pTUVOK [OC]: Acknowledged.
DALETH: How typical of the Kyrians.
pEMH: What do you mean?
DALETH: They fight the same way they live. Deviously.
(Daleth has a weapon. They see Tedran and Seven at the end of the corridor.)
pJANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
pTUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here.
pJANEWAY: The Kyrians are in the mess hall. We're going in.
pTUVOK [OC]: Security is on the way.
pEMH: I'll go first, Captain, and draw any fire if need be.
DALETH: Your crew is heroic, Captain.
pEMH: I just happen to be invulnerable to phaser fire, but I appreciate the compliment. Captain?
pJANEWAY: Go.

[Pseudo Mess hall]

DALETH: Tedran, this is between us. Leave these people out of it.
TEDRAN: I know what you're doing. An alliance with these aliens.
pJANEWAY: We were trading with them, nothing more.
TEDRAN: You expect me to believe that? You plan to use this ship to destroy us.
DALETH: We wouldn't need help if we wanted to destroy you.
pJANEWAY: We didn't realise you were fighting with the Vaskans. Now, lay down your weapons and I promise you won't be harmed.
(Tedran turns as security enter through the other door. Seven uses the distraction to disarm Tedran. Daleth fires his weapon.)
pJANEWAY: No!
pEMH: He's dead.
(The Arbiters are also present.)
EMH: Computer, freeze programme. A tragic, needless death, but as you can see, Voyager was not responsible. After Tedran was killed, Voyager was attacked by nine Kyrian ships. My programme was disabled, most likely when they stole my backup module. The next thing I knew, I was standing next to this gentleman seven centuries later.
KYRIAN ARBITER: Very entertaining.
EMH: I'll admit your holotechnology is new to me. I had to extrapolate in a few places. But I assure you this is an accurate recreation.
KYRIAN ARBITER: Perhaps. Or perhaps it's the fabrication of a war criminal who's afraid for his life.
VASKAN ARBITER: Do you have any evidence to support your explanation?
EMH: In fact, I do. I've confirmed that this is the same tricorder I used to scan Tedran at the moment of his death. If I can access the bio-readings inside, I can prove he was killed by a Vaskan weapon, not by Captain Janeway.
VASKAN ARBITER: Can this be done?
QUARREN: I've been trying to decipher the instrument for years, but, with the Doctor's help
KYRIAN ARBITER: I fail to see what this would prove. Tedran died on Voyager, a victim of a conspiracy to oppress my people. The weapon used, who fired it, this is all beside the point.
VASKAN ARBITER: Was there a conspiracy? Did Voyager really help my ancestors to start the Great War? Or were Kyrians the aggressors as my people have always believed? Now, this casts doubt on everything.
KYRIAN ARBITER: But it doesn't change the fact my children can't attend the same academies as yours, or that we are forced to live outside of the city centre.
VASKAN ARBITER: Today's problems are not at issue here. This is about history.
EMH: Look, I don't know who started your war. All I'm saying is that Voyager wasn't responsible.
KYRIAN ARBITER: I can't believe that you would cooperate with this murderer. You of all people. You built this museum.
QUARREN: The facts are turning out to be more complex than I expected.
KYRIAN ARBITER: We shouldn't be listening to this hologram. I want him arrested and charged for the crimes we know he committed.
VASKAN ARBITER: That's not your decision to make.
KYRIAN ARBITER: No, it's not, is it? I'm only on this commission because you needed a token Kyrian.
QUARREN: Please. This isn't about race.
KYRIAN ARBITER: It's always about race. You seize every opportunity to keep yourselves in power.
VASKAN ARBITER: I'm sorry you see it that way. I think we are obligated to hear what the Doctor has to say. Proceed with your investigation.
QUARREN: Yes, Arbiter.
KYRIAN ARBITER: You'll pay for your crimes.

[Pseudo Sickbay]

EMH: Seven hundred years and I'm still caught in the middle of your little dispute. One might have hoped for a bit of social progress in the interim.
QUARREN: Change never comes easily for us.
EMH: Hmm. That's an understatement.
QUARREN: I've entered the specifications that you gave me.
EMH: Let's give it a try. (A tool materialises.) Hmm. Close enough. This diagnostic tool should help me get past the initial encryption sequences. Too bad we can't re-create B'Elanna Torres.
QUARREN: Torres. The chief transporter operator.
EMH: Chief Engineer. You might want to make the correction in your history books.
QUARREN: What was she like, Torres? I suppose we've gotten her personality wrong too.
EMH: Starting to believe me, are you?
QUARREN: Well, let's just say I'm trying to keep an open mind.
EMH: B'Elanna Torres. Intelligent, beautiful and with a chip on her shoulder the size of the Horsehead Nebula. She also had a kind of vulnerability that made her quite endearing.
QUARREN: You miss her, and the others.
EMH: From my perspective, I saw them all only a few days ago. But in fact, it's been centuries, and I'll never see them again. Did they ever reach home? I wonder.
QUARREN: I've always wondered that too, from as far back as I can remember.
EMH: Really?
QUARREN: Ever since I was a small child, the first time I heard the name Voyager, it conjured up my imagination.
EMH: Even though we were the bad guys?
QUARREN: That didn't matter. I was too young to understand the implications. The fact you were so far from home, travelling across the stars. Ah, I found it all very heroic. I suppose Voyager is what made me fall in love with history.
EMH: If it means anything to you, you would have made a fine member of our crew.
(Boom! The building shakes.)
EMH: I hope that's part of the simulation.
QUARREN: No, it isn't.
(The sound of breaking glass, and loud voices.)

[Museum]

(A group of young Vaskans are trashing the museum.)
MOB: Everything goes! The days of lies are over! Destroy it all!
QUARREN: No! Stop this!
VASKAN VISITOR: We know about the hologram. This museum's filled with lies.
QUARREN: Stop! Listen to me!
VASKAN VISITOR: We've listened long enough!
QUARREN: They're using photon grenades. We've got to take cover. This way.
(The tricorder gets left behind on a step as they take shelter by a large buttress. In the cold light of day, the mob has gone, but there is still weapons fire outside.) 
EMH: What's happening? I've been hearing weapons.
QUARREN: It's getting worse. Protests, vandalism. Two people have been killed. Don't worry, they've cordoned off the museum. We're safe for now.
EMH: That's not what I'm concerned about. Two deaths, a race riot, all because of me?
QUARREN: You were only the catalyst. The pressure's been building for years. It was only a matter of time before something set it off. Have you found the tricorder?
EMH: Not yet.
QUARREN: It's crucial that we do. The Kyrians are demanding you be punished for your crimes, but the Vaskans want to hear your version of events again. They want to continue the investigation.
EMH: What's going to happen?
QUARREN: I don't know. The Vaskans are more powerful, but the Kyrians are very angry. They're talking about another war.
EMH: Then there's only one solution. Delete my programme. I've become a kind of symbol for this conflict. As long as I'm around your people are going to keep on fighting. I'll show you how to decompile my programme. You can say I was damaged in the attack last night. No one will hold you responsible.
QUARREN: I can't do that to you.
EMH: Then I'll do it myself.
QUARREN: No!
EMH: I'm a medical hologram, programmed to do no harm. But I'm doing harm on a global scale. Ever since you reactivated me, I've been concerned with clearing Voyager's good name. But that's not important now. There's more at stake.
QUARREN: A few days ago I might have agreed with you, but what about the facts?
EMH: Facts be damned! Names, dates, places, it's all open to interpretation. Who's to say what really happened? And ultimately, what difference does it make? What matters is today and the future of your people.
QUARREN: Doctor, you were there. You can't deny what happened.
EMH: I can, and I will. Tedran was a martyr for your people, a hero. A symbol of your struggle for freedom. Who am I to wander in seven hundred years later and take that away from you?
QUARREN: History has been abused. We keep blaming each other for what happened in the past. If you don't help us now, it could be another seven hundred years.
EMH: Let's find that tricorder.
(The camera swings round to reveal that all this too was a simulation.)

[Future Museum]

TABRIS: It was a pivotal moment in our history. As a result of the Doctor's testimony, a dialogue was opened between our peoples. Eventually, we found a new respect for our divergent cultures and traditions. The efforts of people like Quarren and the Doctor paved the way for unity. Quarren died six years later, but he lived long enough to witness the Dawn of Harmony.
KYRIAN SPECTATOR: And the Doctor?
TABRIS: Well, he served as our surgical chancellor for many years until he decided to leave. He took a small craft and set a course for the Alpha Quadrant, attempting to trace the path of Voyager. He said he had a longing for home. This way.


S4 E24
Demon
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 6 May 1998

[Bridge]
(Lights are going out all over the ship. Note to those who are interested - Roxann is back after being missing in Living Witness, because she was giving birth to her first daughter.)
KIM: The ship is grey, Captain. We've cut power to decks four through nine. Replicators, holodecks and all other nonessentials are offline. Remaining systems are operating at twenty percent capacity.
JANEWAY: Tom, how long can you keep us flying?
PARIS: With the deuterium supply this low? Even at one quarter impulse we'll be out of gas inside a week.
JANEWAY: Everyone redouble your efforts. Keep your eyes open for new sources of deuterium. Tuvok, Chakotay, I want recommendations for further methods of conservation. Harry, you and I will give them a hand in geophysics. See if we can't synthesise a substitute fuel. In the meantime, we stay in grey mode. If anybody's got any other ideas, I'm listening.
PARIS: We could set up a bicycle in the mess hall, attach a generator, pedal home.
JANEWAY: Now why didn't I think of that?
PARIS: And I volunteer Harry to take the first shift.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: Living space will be extremely limited. Take only those personal items which are absolutely essential.
(Tuvok bumps into Neelix and his collection of duffel bags. He picks up a book which has fallen out.)
NEELIX: Hello, there.
TUVOK: What, may I ask, is this?
NEELIX: That, Mister Vulcan, is the Selected Works of Jirex.
TUVOK: Only essential items, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, Jirex is essential. He's the greatest writer in the Talaxian canon. I never go to sleep without reading at least one of his parables.
TUVOK: A habit you will have to break until we're able to restore power to crew quarters.
NEELIX: I suppose I can try.
TUVOK: And these?
(Bolsters and pillows.)
NEELIX: I get terrible neck pains without them.
TUVOK: I suggest you ask the Doctor to prescribe an anti-inflammatory.
NEELIX: Fine. I don't mind roughing it.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix. The blankets.
NEELIX: No, no, that's where I draw the line. My mother knitted these herself. I've slept with them since I was a child.
TUVOK: You'll have to make do with standard issue bedding.
NEELIX: Those Starfleet blankets give me a rash.
TUVOK: I suggest you ask the Doctor
NEELIX: For some anti-itch cream. I might as well sleep in Sickbay. Thank you, Mister Vulcan. You've just given me an idea.
(Neelix leaves Tuvok holding his gear.)

[Astrometrics lab]

CHAKOTAY: What's going on here?
SEVEN: I'm working.
CHAKOTAY: You were ordered to shut down Astrometrics an hour ago. We can't afford the power. Seven, it's inefficient.
SEVEN: Efficiency is relative, Commander. If I shut down Astrometrics, I won't be able to scan for new fuel sources.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your efforts, but we'll have to use conventional scanners until
(Beep!)
SEVEN: Conventional scanners would not have found this.
CHAKOTAY: What?
SEVEN: Highly concentrated deuterium.
CHAKOTAY: Where?
SEVEN: Computer, display source. A planetoid point four light-years from our present position. There are dense pockets of deuterium just beneath the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but that's a Demon class planet.
SEVEN: Demon class?
CHAKOTAY: That's what Starfleet calls it. Also known as Class Y. It's got a toxic atmosphere filled with thermionic radiation. Surface temperatures are in excess of five hundred Kelvins. Just entering a standard orbit would be suicide.
SEVEN: Our situation is desperate.
CHAKOTAY: True.
SEVEN: When faced with desperate circumstances, we must adapt.

Captain's log, supplemental. I've ordered adaptations to our shields to repel the thermionic discharges. Hoping that the benefits will outweigh the risks, we're now trying to beam deuterium from beneath the planet's surface.

[Transporter room]

SEVEN: Narrow the annular confinement beam to point four seven terahertz. Ready here, Captain.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Stand by. Harry, shunt whatever additional power you can to the containment field. I don't want any of those atmospheric gasses seeping in.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: A thermionic discharge has struck the forward shields. They're holding.
JANEWAY: Let's get this over with before you tell me otherwise. Seven, do it.

[Transporter room]

SEVEN: Energise. Transport in progress.
(As the container fills, the transporter console explodes.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Shields are weakening.
KIM: I'm reading an overload in the pattern buffers.
JANEWAY: Abort transport.

[Transporter room]

SEVEN: Controls not responding.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Get out of there now.

[Corridor]

(The container explodes. Seven gets the transporter operator out just in time.)
SEVEN: Computer, seal off the transporter room and erect a level ten containment field.
COMPUTER: Containment field established.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: The good news is Nozawa and Seven of Nine have both been treated and released from Sickbay, and the planetary gases have been expelled from the transporter room.
JANEWAY: And the bad news?
CHAKOTAY: The transporters are offline. It'll take days before they're back again.
JANEWAY: Great. We use valuable energy on a course change and all we get for our trouble is another downed system. Can we send a probe to collect the deuterium?
TUVOK: It would incinerate within seconds of entering the upper atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Then I don't see any other options. Tom, put us back on our original course, one quarter impulse.
KIM: Captain, maybe I can help.
PARIS: Harry, the bicycle thing was just a joke.
KIM: I've been thinking. With Tuvok's shield modifications and a few tweaks to an environmental suit, I could take a shuttle to the surface and mine the deuterium from there.
TUVOK: Need I remind you, Ensign, that there is no environment less hospitable to humanoid life than a Class Y.
KIM: Actually, Tuvok, no, you needn't remind me. What's the alternative? Resume course? Creep along at quarter impulse hoping we find fuel before we end up dead in the water? We've got deuterium within arm's reach. We can't let the opportunity slip away without at least trying.
CHAKOTAY: He's got a point.
JANEWAY: You wouldn't be able to communicate with us if you got in trouble, and until we get transporters back we couldn't beam you out.
TUVOK: Even with modifications, it wouldn't be long before your suit began to corrode. Exposure to that atmosphere could kill you within minutes.
KIM: I know the risks.
JANEWAY: Even if I agreed, I'd never let you go alone.
KIM: Of course not. That's why I'm volunteering my good buddy Tom here to go with me.

[Corridor]

PARIS: You were pretty forceful in there.
KIM: So?
PARIS: So? I don't think I've ever seen you that assertive in a staff meeting before. You must be bucking for a promotion.
KIM: I had an idea and I spoke up, that's all.
PARIS: Oh, no, no, no. It was more than that. You put Tuvok in his place right in front of everybody.
KIM: He was stating the obvious again. Talking down to me like I didn't know anything about Demon Class planets.
PARIS: I am not criticising you. Believe me, nobody enjoys seeing the Vulcan Master put down a peg more than I do. I was just surprised, that's all.
KIM: Why?
PARIS: It didn't seem like you.
KIM: Good.

[Turbolift]

KIM: Cargo bay two.
PARIS: You trying to change your squeaky clean image or something?
KIM: Not exactly.
PARIS: What, then.
KIM: How do I explain this? When I first came on board Voyager I was pretty green, right?
PARIS: A deep, almost fluorescent green, if I remember correctly.
KIM: I was young, inexperienced, and I acted like it. Nervous about giving my opinion, hesitant to make suggestions, so I usually just kept my mouth shut. And I behaved that way for so long it became a habit. But, in the last four years, a lot has happened. I've fought the Borg, been transformed into an alien, helped defeat the Hirogen. Hell, I've even come back from the dead.
PARIS: It's been a wild ride.
KIM: I woke up the other morning and it suddenly hit me. I've got a lot of experience now, so why should I be afraid to take the initiative or voice my ideas?
PARIS: Good for you, Harry.

[Corridor]

PARIS: But do me a favour. The next time you try to assert yourself, leave me out of it. I hate hot weather.
KIM: Don't worry. We can cut some holes in the environmental suits, get some ventilation going.
PARIS: Harry, while you're busy improving yourself, you might try working on your sense of humour.
KIM: My sense of humour? What about that stupid gag about the bicycle?
PARIS: Oh, ho, ho. That was funny.
KIM: No, that was not funny.

[Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: I can't thank you enough for getting me in on this mission, Harry.
KIM: Don't mention it.
PARIS: Remind me to volunteer you to help the next time I have to clean the warp plasma manifolds.
KIM: Really, Tom, you don't owe me anything.
PARIS: Oh, but I do. We've lost attitude control.
KIM: Time to show off your piloting skills. Think you can handle it?
PARIS: Watch me.
KIM: Oh, I'll be watching you, all right. Switching to manual control.
PARIS: Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the ride.
KIM: We're entering the lower atmosphere. Approaching the landing coordinates.
PARIS: All right. I'm going to set us down. On my mark. 
(Big thump. They bounce in their seats.)
PARIS: Mark.
KIM: You did that on purpose, didn't you.

[Planet surface]

PARIS: It's almost five hundred degrees Kelvin.
KIM: Don't worry. The suits can handle it.
PARIS: If not, we'll be human barbecue.
KIM: I'm picking up traces of deuterium. Fifty metres that way. Let's move.
PARIS: No sweat.
KIM: Lame.

[Cavern]

(They find a pool of what looks like mercury, which would still be liquid even at these temperatures.)
KIM: It's coming from inside here.
PARIS: What is it?
KIM: Some kind of metallic compound. Highly viscous, And if these readings are right, its temperature is only twelve degrees?
PARIS: In this environment?
KIM: Whatever this stuff is it's packed with liquefied deuterium.
PARIS: Jackpot!
KIM: There's another pool twenty metres that way. Why don't you go check it out while I collect a few samples here.
PARIS: Right. I don't know, Harry. A couple of lounge chairs, a big beach umbrella, maybe some dermalplast to counteract the chemical burns and I think we've found ourselves a new vacation spot. Oh, come on. That was a little funny. Let me hear you do better. Harry. Harry?
(Paris returns to the first pool. There are bubbles coming from it.)
PARIS: Oh, my god.
(Paris reaches in and pulls Kim out.)
PARIS: I know it's hot out, Harry, but you picked a lousy time to go for a swim.
KIM: I don't know what happened. I leaned over to collect a sample and it was like I was pulled in.
COMPUTER: Warning, Ensign Kim. An environmental seal has been compromised. Oxygen depletion in thirty seconds.
PARIS: Hang in there, buddy, and I'll get you back to the shuttle. Have you put on weight?
KIM: You're just out of shape.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in fifteen seconds.
PARIS: I'll make you a deal. You hold your breath till we get back to the shuttle and I promise I'll start exercising every day.
KIM: Maybe you should start with the bicycle.
PARIS: I thought I told you to hold your breath.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in five seconds.
PARIS: Hang in there, Harry. We'll make it.
COMPUTER: Warning, Lieutenant Paris. An environmental seal has been compromised. Oxygen depletion in thirty seconds.
(Kim collapses.)
PARIS: You've got to be kidding me. We're in the same boat now, buddy, but I'll get us out of this.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in fifteen seconds.
PARIS: You're right. I definitely need to get back in shape.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in five seconds.
(The beep becomes a long tone. They are both unconscious. Or worse.)

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Out of the question.
NEELIX: Be reasonable, Doctor.
EMH: Take it up with Commander Chakotay. He's on his way here right now.
NEELIX: But it's only for a couple of days. Just until we get power back in the crew quarters.
EMH: I suggest you set up camp in the mess hall.
NEELIX: The mess hall is full. Where are we supposed to sleep?
EMH: Anywhere but here. This is a sickbay, not a dormitory.
NEELIX: But you have four empty beds.
EMH: Biobeds, reserved for patients.
NEELIX: You don't have any patients.
EMH: I may have one in a moment if you and your fellow squatters don't go elsewhere.
(Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
EMH: Oh, it's about time. Mister Neelix is attempting to turn my sickbay into a flophouse.
CHAKOTAY: We are short on beds right now. We've got to adapt.
NEELIX: Ah ha!
EMH: But, what if there's a medical emergency?
CHAKOTAY: Then Neelix and the others will get out of the way.
NEELIX: Absolutely.
EMH: But, this isn't just sickbay, it's my residence.
NEELIX: And we promise to be the most perfect houseguests.
CHAKOTAY: What more can you ask for.
EMH: But, I have a routine. I'm a night owl. What if one of them should snore while I'm listening to Puccini?
CHAKOTAY: Well, if you feel that strongly about it, Doc, I suppose we'll have to consider other options.
EMH: Thank you, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: For example, we could shut down your programme until you're needed. The Captain asked me to look for ways to conserve power, and it would spare you from having to listen to them snore.
JANEWAY [OC]: Commander Chakotay to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
EMH: But
(Chakotay leaves.)
EMH: Make yourselves at home.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Try scanning for infrared signatures.
TUVOK: There's too much interference.
CHAKOTAY: What's up?
JANEWAY: Tom and Harry still aren't back.
CHAKOTAY: You want me to take another shuttle down and look for them?
JANEWAY: And risk losing you, too? Either we keep waiting until we run out of deuterium and we get trapped in orbit, or
CHAKOTAY: Or?
JANEWAY: We land the ship.
TUVOK: As you know, Captain, the landing procedure requires a significant output of energy. With shield strength as low as it is, we can't even be certain the ship will survive the descent.
JANEWAY: What's the alternative? We're up here, the deuterium's down there, and we're stuck without it. We've come this far. Janeway to engineering. Vent all plasma from the nacelles. Transfer any available power to atmospheric thrusters and stand by to commence landing sequence.
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, take the conn.
CHAKOTAY: Tom's going to be sorry he missed this.
JANEWAY: Code blue.
TUVOK: Commander Tuvok to all hands. Go to Blue alert and report to Code Blue stations.
CHAKOTAY: Atmospheric controls at standby. Landing struts online. Inertial dampers at maximum.
TUVOK: All operative decks report condition blue.
JANEWAY: Let us down easy, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're on a declining glide trajectory. Altitude one hundred and fifty kilometres.
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: A thermionic discharge. Shields down to eighty one percent. Shields at forty three percent.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I think we're through the worst of it. Almost.
TUVOK: Shields at twenty two percent and falling.
JANEWAY: Can you shore them up?
TUVOK: Negative. There's no more available power.
CHAKOTAY: Engaging landing struts. Brace for impact!
(Voyager lands with a bump.)
JANEWAY: Status?
TUVOK: I could give you a litany of damaged systems, Captain, but suffice it to say, now that we're down, we won't go up again soon.
JANEWAY: Start organising repair crews. That was very good, Commander. Take an away team and find Harry and Tom.

[Corridor]

TORRES: Chakotay, you're going out to look for them, aren't you?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
TORRES: Take me with you.
CHAKOTAY: I can't do that, B'Elanna. You're needed here to complete repairs.
TORRES: I've already handed out assignments. Vorik's on top of it. I want to help you find them.
CHAKOTAY: Look, I know you're concerned about Tom and Harry. We all are. I'll have them back safe and sound in no time.
TORRES: Don't patronise me. We both know how dangerous that environment is. They could be in serious trouble.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. I don't know what we're going to find. That's why I need cool heads.
TORRES: You think I can't control myself?
CHAKOTAY: I think you're a little too close to this.
TORRES: You're damn right I am. If someone you loved was missing on this planet you would be the first one out that door, and you know it.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, the clock is ticking. Go back to Engineering, do your job and let me do mine.
TORRES: Do me a favour.
CHAKOTAY: What?
TORRES: Take Seven of Nine with you.
CHAKOTAY: You're recommending her?
TORRES: You said you needed cool heads, didn't you? Nobody's head is cooler than hers.
CHAKOTAY: All right.
TORRES: And bring them back safe.
CHAKOTAY: I will.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH is humming opera and making plenty of noise as he does his chores. As he starts to break into song -)
NEELIX: Excuse me, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: We'd like to sleep now, if you don't mind.
EMH: Not at all. Make yourselves comfortable.
NEELIX: But you seem busy.
EMH: Oh, don't mind me. Just going about my routine. Sleep away.
(The EMH activates the arms to trap Neelix on the surgical bay biobed, then lowers them again.)
NEELIX: What about the lights?
EMH: What about them?
NEELIX: Could we turn them off?
EMH: You don't expect me to work in the dark, do you?
NEELIX: Well, no, but I'll never be able to fall asleep.
EMH: That's not my problem, is it?
NEELIX: I've got a very, very busy day tomorrow and my next shift is just four hours away.
EMH: Perhaps you should have thought of that when choosing your accommodations.
NEELIX: Well, if we can't sleep, I guess we'll just have to find some other way to pass the time. How about a sing-along? I could teach you all some Talaxian rondos and I know a Vulcan funeral dirge, not to mention the classics of Klingon opera.
(Neelix makes a strangled noise.)
EMH: Very well, Mister Neelix. You win. Pleasant dreams.
NEELIX: Computer, lights off.

[Planet surface]

(A fumerole makes Seven nearly jump out of her environmental suit.)
CHAKOTAY: You're a little jumpy, aren't you?
SEVEN: I thought I heard something.
CHAKOTAY: Now you know why they call it Demon Class.
SEVEN: Demon implies a presence. This planetoid is unoccupied.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up the shuttlecraft.

[Shuttlecraft]

(The back door is open wide.)
CHAKOTAY: Nobody home.
SEVEN: It's unlikely their environmental suits were able to survive the elements for this long.
CHAKOTAY: I hope you're wrong.

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: Looks like they went this way.
SEVEN: My tricorder isn't picking up any lifesigns. How did you reach that conclusion?
CHAKOTAY: Footprints. I guess you never assimilated any Indian scouts.

[Cavern]

SEVEN: High concentrations of deuterium coming from this fluid. I'll collect a sample.
(She takes vial 758 from her sample case and is about to dip it in the fluid when Chakotay stops her.)
CHAKOTAY: Let's find Tom and Harry first. We'll collect the deuterium later
SEVEN: As you wish.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found some shelter inside.
(A rock ledge gives way under Chakotay's foot and he falls, just grabbing on to the remaining edge of the pit in time.)
SEVEN: Commander!
(Seven tries to pull Chakotay to safety, then other hands join in the effort. Paris is not wearing an environmental suit.)
PARIS: Good to see you guys. Welcome to the Demon planet. Our suits were corroding, our lungs were burning. We were suffocating. You know what they say about your life passing before your eyes? Well, it's true. I was finally getting past puberty when suddenly, I lost consciousness. I don't know how long I was out but, the next thing I knew, I was awake and I was breathing normally. And I looked over at Harry. He was breathing normally too, with his helmet off. And, and we just looked at each other, and we just started laughing. I know it sounds crazy, but it was an exhilarating experience.
SEVEN: His vital signs are normal. Apparently he has adapted.
CHAKOTAY: Just the same, we'd better let the Doctor take a look at you. Chakotay to Voyager.
PARIS: I've already tried that. The comm. signal can't get out of the caves.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll call again when we get back outside.
PARIS: I'm telling you, Chakotay. It was an amazing experience. It, it's like when you're a kid who's afraid of the water and you suddenly realise that you can swim. Go ahead, take your helmets off. Try it.
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're feeling all right, but none of us should be taking any risks until we know exactly what's going on.
PARIS: Don't tell me that a big, tough guy like you is afraid of a little poisoned atmosphere?
CHAKOTAY: Where's Harry?
PARIS: He's further inside the cave. We found a huge cache of deuterium.
CHAKOTAY: Let's find him and get you two back to the ship.
PARIS: Whatever you say, boss, but I'm telling you. We could breathe this air forever.

[Engineering]

VORIK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: Yes?
VORIK: We should have transporters back online within the hour.
TORRES: Well, that's great. But right now I'm more concerned with little things like, oh, I don't know, say, life support?
VORIK: Indeed. According to my calculations, environmental systems will cease to function in two hours.
TORRES: You say that like you're giving me the weather report.
VORIK: I agree the situation is dire, but losing our cool will not help matters.
TORRES: Losing our cool? Where did you pick up that expression?
VORIK: Mister Paris.
TORRES: Well, there's hope for you yet. Now, how about giving me a hand.

[Cavern]

(Paris leads Chakotay and Seven through a narrow tunnel.)
CHAKOTAY: Harry.
KIM: Commander. Isn't it incredible?
PARIS: That's what I've been trying to tell them.
CHAKOTAY: Are you feeling okay, Harry?
KIM: Never better. If we could get mobile transporters down here, we could mine enough deuterium to get us all the way to the Alpha Quadrant and back again.
CHAKOTAY: Tom tells me you've already picked up twenty kilos. That should be enough to get the main systems back online. Let's get back to the ship. Have the Doctor take a look at you.
KIM: I'd rather stay here and keep working, if it's all the same to you.
CHAKOTAY: It's not.
KIM: Really, Commander, I'm fine. You should send some more personnel out to help. They won't even need environmental suits.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your enthusiasm, but we're going back to Voyager. Now.
PARIS: It's all right, Harry. Once the Doc takes a look at us and sees we're fine, we'll get right back to work.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Status, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I've shut down life support everywhere but decks one and five. It should provide us with an extra hour of breathable air.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've found Tom and Harry.
JANEWAY: First good news I've had all day. What about the deuterium?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've got

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: A few kilos. We're on our way back to Voyager now.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: What's your position?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: About two kilometres from the ship.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Transporters are coming back online. We should be able to beam you back from that distance, but it may take a few minutes.

[Planet surface]

CHAKOTAY: Have the Doctor standing by. I think he's going to want to look at Tom and Harry.

[Sickbay]

(The sound of snoring ripples through the air. The EMH strides out of his office.)
EMH: Computer, lights. Maximum illumination. Everybody up! Rise and shine, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: What's going on?
EMH: It's checkout time.
NEELIX: It's the middle of the night.
EMH: Medicine knows no time clock. I've got patients on the way and there's no more room at the inn.
NEELIX: Patients. Is somebody sick?
EMH: I can't answer that until I've examined them, now can I?
NEELIX: Examine who?
EMH: Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Paris.
NEELIX: Is there anything I can do to help?
EMH: Yes. You and your friends can vacate the premises.
NEELIX: Right, move! You heard the Doctor. This is an emergency evacuation. Move! Move! Move! Doctor.
EMH: Yes?
NEELIX: Thanks for your hospitality. And if you ever need a place to stay, my door's always open.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Energising.
(Janeway takes over the transport. Paris and Kim start gasping for breath as soon as they are solid.)#
JANEWAY: Beam Tom and Harry to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: What happened to them?
CHAKOTAY: As soon as we beamed aboard they started suffocating.
EMH: Computer, erect a level seven forcefield around biobeds one and two.
COMPUTER: Forcefield established.
JANEWAY: What are you doing?
EMH: Filling the area inside the forcefield with the atmospheric gases from the planet. Try to breathe normally now. Easy, or you'll hyperventilate. Slowly. In and out. In and out.

Captain's log, supplemental. The Doctor continues to investigate Tom and Harry, whose condition seems as serious as it is strange.

[Sickbay]

(The EMH holds a vial of the fluid from the pool.)
PARIS: That stuff is in our blood?
EMH: I'm afraid so. From what I can tell, you've been bioformed.
KIM: Bioformed?
EMH: Think of it as the opposite of terraforming. In the same way we adapt the environment of a planet to suit our needs, this planet has adapted you.
PARIS: How is that possible?
EMH: This fluid somehow entered your bloodstream and began altering your physiology at the cellular level. I haven't had the time to analyse this substance, but I hope to have answers soon.
JANEWAY: I'd like to run a few tests of my own, if you don't mind.
EMH: Of course.
PARIS: So, what's our prognosis, Doc?
EMH: Well, you'll be fine. As long as you keep breathing the planet's gases.
KIM: You mean we have to stay inside this forcefield?
EMH: I'm afraid it's worse than that. The atmosphere of this planet can't be replicated safely.
PARIS: Which means if we leave, we'll have nothing to breathe.
EMH: Exactly. Either we find a way to treat your condition, or you'll have to be left behind.
JANEWAY: Can the bioforming process be reversed?
EMH: As it stands, I don't know enough about the phenomenon to undo it.
JANEWAY: I'll send Chakotay and Seven back to the surface. They'll gather as much information as they can. B'Elanna and I will start running tests on this.
KIM: Let me go with the away team, Captain. I know the terrain. I can help.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: Right now they're better off out there than they are in here. But one of you will have to remain so I can monitor your condition.
KIM: No problem. I volunteer Tom to stay here and play guinea pig.

[Planet surface]

SEVEN: Each square kilometre of this planetoid is less appealing than the last.
KIM: I think it's breathtaking.
SEVEN: Breathtaking?
KIM: Yes.
SEVEN: Perhaps your recent experience has impaired your perceptions.
KIM: No, I don't think so. I wasn't really seeing it before.
CHAKOTAY: Seeing what?
KIM: The beauty.
SEVEN: Would you care to point out an example?
KIM: Look over there. What do you see?
SEVEN: I see monochromatic geological formations, dust, haze.
CHAKOTAY: What do you see, Harry?
KIM: To me, those geological formations are a dozen shades of red and gold. That dust, it's glowing. And the haze, it seems to intensify the colours. I'm sorry. I know it's weird, but I feel connected to this place.
CHAKOTAY: Connected how?
SEVEN: I'm picking up humanoid lifesigns.
CHAKOTAY: Location?
SEVEN: One hundred metres this way.

[Science lab]

(The fluid is under the microscope.)
JANEWAY: Magnify. Factor ten. Deuterium, hydrogen sulphate, dichromates.
TORRES: Add a little sodium chloride and it would probably taste a lot like Neelix's soup.
JANEWAY: We should be so lucky. Oh, what's this? Magnify. Factor twenty.
TORRES: Captain? That's a protein molecule.
JANEWAY: This fluid has organic properties. Let me see the sample that's been treated with the reagents.
(The sample slithers onto Torres' thumb.)
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: Let's get you to sickbay.
TORRES: Wait. That might not be necessary.
(The sample returns to its dish, then becomes a replica of the thumb.)

[Cavern]

KIM: Commander!
(Two bodies in environmental suits are lying on the ground, creating the lifesigns on the tricorder. Kim rolls one over and looks at himself.)

[Science lab]

(A pool of fluid is forming beneath Voyager. The softening ground makes one landing strut sink, jolting the ship.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Report.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: A large pool of the metallic compound is forming beneath the ship. We are sinking, Captain.

[Science lab]

JANEWAY: On my way. Get down to Engineering. Get thrusters online. We're getting off this planet.

[Cavern]

KIM: I'm not sure how, but they're still alive.
SEVEN: Just barely.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK [OC]: The Captain has ordered an emergency ascent.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: We must bring you back to the ship.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Understood. I've got five to beam back.
TUVOK: Five?

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: We found another Paris and Kim.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: I can't explain it.
JANEWAY: I think I can. Prepare for transport.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Beam us directly to Sickbay.
KIM: No. I don't want to go back.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Transporters are still acting up. We can't get individual locks. We're going to have to grab you in a wide beam and bring you in as a group.

[Cavern]

CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: I belong here.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. But until we know what's going on, you've got to come back with us to the ship. Harry, no!
(Demon Kim runs off.)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Four of the away team are in Sickbay, Captain. I'm trying to get a lock on the fifth. It is Ensign Kim or rather, one of the Ensigns Kim. The ship is continuing to sink.
JANEWAY: Then there's no time. We've got to get back into orbit. We'll worry about Harry or whoever he is once we're up. Bring antigrav thrusters online.
(Janeway takes the helm.)
TUVOK: Thrusters enabled.
JANEWAY: Inertial dampers to flight configuration.
TUVOK: Dampers reconfigured. All stations report ready.
JANEWAY: Initiating ascent. I need power to the thrusters.
TUVOK: We are being restrained by an electromagnetic force.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
TUVOK: No effect. Decks fourteen and fifteen are submerged. The ship is continuing to sink.
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: Thrusters are offline due to an overload. Decks thirteen through fifteen are submerged. If we don't lift off soon, the hull will begin to corrode.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]

VORIK: Ensign Vorik here.
JANEWAY [OC]: I need thrusters back online.
VORIK: Lieutenant Torres has already sent a team to the thruster control junction.
JANEWAY [OC]: How long?
VORIK: At least a half an hour.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: Even if thrusters are repaired, they won't be of much use if we sink any deeper.
JANEWAY: There must be some way to disperse it. Try a nadion burst from the phaser emitters. It may weaken the electromagnetic properties of the fluid.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way to Sickbay to check on Harry and Tom. You've got the bridge.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: How are they?
EMH: Lucky. The backup systems in their environmental suits kept their vital functions going. It'll take time, but they'll recover.
JANEWAY: And him?
EMH: Aside from his ability to breathe the rarified air on this planet, he's the exact duplicate of Mister Paris. He even seems to share his memories, not to mention his winning personality.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna and I discovered that the fluid has mimetic properties. Somehow, it reads the DNA of whatever it comes in contact with and re-creates it.
EMH: Fascinating.
JANEWAY: Can you tell me who you are?
DEMON PARIS: Please, just let me go back.
JANEWAY: Not until I find out why two of my crew have been duplicated.
DEMON PARIS: Captain, you have to believe me. I don't know any more than you do about this. Until he showed up, I thought I was Tom Paris. A little changed by my experience on the planet maybe, but now I don't know who or what I am. All I know is that I have to get off this ship and go back down to the surface.
TUVOK [OC]: We're ready to try the nadion burst, Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
(It hurts Demon Paris.)
DEMON PARIS: Ow. What are you doing?
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, we're receiving an urgent hail. It's from Ensign Kim. The one on the surface.
JANEWAY: Put him through.
DEMON KIM [OC]: Captain, please. Stop what you're doing.
JANEWAY: If you really do have Harry Kim's memories, you know that I'm going to do whatever it takes to get this ship back in orbit.

[Planet surface]

DEMON KIM: You can't do that!
JANEWAY [OC]: Why not?
DEMON KIM: I, I'm not sure I understand it myself.

[Sickbay]

JANEWAY: Well then, you're going to have to help me figure it out. Mister Tuvok, I'm on my way to transporter room one. Erect a level seven forcefield around the platform. Fill it with atmosphere from the planet and then beam Mister Kim, or rather his duplicate, aboard.
TUVOK [OC]: Aye, Captain.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Do you have a lock on him?
TRANSPORTER TECHNICIAN: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Energise.
(Demon Kim is beamed aboard.)
JANEWAY: Release my vessel.
DEMON KIM: We can't do that.
JANEWAY: We?
DEMON KIM: The planet and I, we're connected somehow. I can't explain it, Captain. I only know that you've got to stop.
JANEWAY: And I'm willing to stop. But I'll say it again, release the ship.
DEMON KIM: No. We need you.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Fire.
(Demon Kim falls, and briefly appears made of the fluid.)
JANEWAY: What are you?
DEMON KIM: Stop. No.
JANEWAY: I'll fire again.
DEMON KIM: You're killing us!
JANEWAY: You leave me no choice.
DEMON KIM: It's not fair. It's wrong! 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
DEMON KIM: No! No, no, no. Please. No more.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire, Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, we are continuing to submerge.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire.
TUVOK [OC]: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: I want some answers.
DEMON KIM: I'm trying to understand. This is hard for me as well.
JANEWAY: You said you have a connection to this planet. You talk about it like it's alive.
DEMON KIM: Alive. Yes, but not the planet. The silver blood.
JANEWAY: The compound that sampled Harry's DNA, and created you.
DEMON KIM: Yes. but it's never been conscious, never sentient before now. Before me and the other.
JANEWAY: Tom Paris.
DEMON KIM: We're the first. Don't you see? You came here. You showed us. When the compound came in contact with Tom and Harry, it experienced awareness for the first time. Before, it was only instinct, sound and light and heat. But those two showed us thought.
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to understand. This silver blood experienced sentience, and now you want more. You want to duplicate the rest of this crew and populate this planet.
DEMON KIM: You're trying so hard to reach home, but this can be home.
JANEWAY: Not for me, and not for my people. Do you understand why we can't stay here?
DEMON KIM: I think so.
JANEWAY: Well then, release us.
DEMON KIM: We'd rather die than be alone. We deserve life.
JANEWAY: This silver blood that created you. It duplicated Harry without killing him. So you don't need our bodies, only samples of DNA. Release Voyager and I'll speak to my crew. And if they're willing, I'll let you duplicate the rest of us.
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to Janeway. We've stopped, Captain. We're no longer submerging.
JANEWAY: Understood. We're getting out of here, Tuvok, but first assemble the crew in Cargo Bay one

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: And have the Doctor meet me there.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY [OC]: I'll explain later.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: It's time to meet your new family.

[Bridge]

(Voyager is standing on solid ground again.)
KIM: All stations report ready for lift off.
TUVOK: Code blue status confirmed.
JANEWAY: Take us up, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
(Voyager flies away, leaving behind over a hundred apparently Starfleet people.)


S4 E25
One
Stardate: 51929.3
Original Airdate: 13 May 1998

[Mess hall]
(The stars outside are not moving. Seven walks up to a table where Kim and Torres are eating.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant, Ensign.
KIM: Hey, Seven.
TORRES: Have some dinner. The potato salad isn't half bad.
SEVEN: I do not require nutrition at this time. I would like to talk with you.
KIM: Okay.
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, what is your place of origin?
KIM: You mean, where am I from? Well, I was born in South Carolina, but I grew up in
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres, explain why you became a member of the Maquis.
TORRES: It was through Chakotay. I met him. Well, actually, he saved my life
SEVEN: List the sports you play.
KIM: I've dabbled in quite a few. Tennis, Pareses Squares, but my favourite is volleyball.
SEVEN: Specify the foods you find enjoyable.
TORRES: Seven, what is this?
SEVEN: Describe the nature of your sexual relationship with Lieutenant Paris.
TORRES: Okay, that's it.
EMH: Computer, freeze programme. Would you care to explain what you're doing?
SEVEN: I'm doing exactly what you instructed me to do.
EMH: I hardly think so. I created this programme to help you become more comfortable in social situations, not to practice alienating people.
SEVEN: You made recommendations about how to carry on a conversation.
EMH: That's true.
SEVEN: You said it's helpful if people feel you're interested in them.
EMH: Correct.
SEVEN: And that drawing them out by asking them about themselves is one way to demonstrate that interest.
EMH: That doesn't mean subjecting them to an interrogation. You have to let them answer, listen to what they're saying. Ask another question on the same subject. Take your time. Shall we try again?
SEVEN: I believe I am overdue for my weekly medical maintenance. We should go.
EMH: Seven, you've never volunteered for a check-up before.
SEVEN: It is preferable to remaining here.

[Bridge]

(Voyager approaches a large pink and purple nebula.)
JANEWAY: What have we got here?
KIM: Looks like a Mutara class nebula with a few trace constituents that aren't in our database, but they're showing up in minute quantities.
TUVOK: The nebula is vast, Captain. It extends beyond the reach of our sensors.
JANEWAY: Oh, then I guess we won't try to go around it. Tom, take us in at one half impulse.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: I'm detecting a slight radioactive field. It's oh, oh.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: Nothing. It's just a headache coming on.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should go to Sickbay.
KIM: Yeah, maybe so.
PARIS: Captain!
(Then Tuvok is in pain as well. Kim is getting burns on his hands.)
KIM: Oh, god.
(The pain strikes Janeway and Chakotay.)
JANEWAY: Tom, turn us around. Get us out of here.
(But Paris collapses before he can touch the helm.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay.
EMH [OC]: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: We need help.
EMH [OC]: What happened?

[Sickbay]

EMH: I'm being inundated with calls.
JANEWAY [OC]: Hurry.
EMH: Seven, go to the bridge. Use the dermal regenerator to treat the burns.

[Bridge]

(Only Tuvok is able to ignore the pain long enough to set a course.)
TUVOK: Course laid in.
(The pain goes away.)
KIM: We've cleared the nebula.
JANEWAY: All stop.
(Seven enters, and turns over a crewman lying by the turbolift door. His face is badly burnt.)
SEVEN: He's dead.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: The nebula extends for at least one hundred ten light years. Possibly more.
JANEWAY: At the least, it would take us well over a month to get through it, and more than a year to get around it.
SEVEN: The crew was unable to tolerate the nebula for even a few minutes. They certainly could not survive a month.
JANEWAY: We've come fifteen thousand light years. We haven't been stopped by temporal anomalies, warp core breaches, or hostile aliens. And I am damned if I'm going to be stopped by a nebula. I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I've analysed a sample of the gases from the nebula. I think the damage came from subnucleonic radiation. Even the briefest exposure is devastating to organic tissue.
JANEWAY: Can you give us any protection against the effects?
EMH: Yes. Stasis chambers. Independent life support for each unit.
JANEWAY: Are you suggesting that the entire crew be put in suspended animation?
EMH: Yes. I, of course, would stay online in order to monitor everyone.
JANEWAY: This is a drastic step, Doctor. Are there any other options? Adjusting the shields? Inoculations?
EMH: I assure you, I've considered all possibilities. This is the only way.
JANEWAY: There's more to getting through the nebula than monitoring the crew. Who would regulate ship's systems? Make course adjustments?
EMH: I think I've demonstrated that I have a command of the rudimentary aspects of piloting.
JANEWAY: Of course you have, and I know you could do it. But you'll need back-up. We have no idea what effect the nebular radiation might have on your holomatrix. What if you went offline?
EMH: There was only one crewmember besides myself that seemed unaffected by the nebula.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: I want you to understand the seriousness of this responsibility. The lives of the entire crew will be on your shoulders.
SEVEN: You doubt my ability to fulfil this task?
JANEWAY: Ordinarily not at all, but this is an unusual situation. After being in the Collective, it wasn't easy for you to adjust to a ship with only a hundred and fifty people on it, was it, Seven? How would you feel with only the Doctor for company?
SEVEN: I will adapt.
JANEWAY: Most humans don't react particularly well to long periods of isolation. Borg Drones have even more difficulty.
SEVEN: As you pointed out, I am neither Borg nor human. I can do this, Captain.
JANEWAY: All right. I'll work with the senior staff to draw up a list of duties. But let me make it clear. The Doctor will be in command. You will follow his instructions just as you would follow mine.
SEVEN: Follow the orders of a hologram?
JANEWAY: He's our Chief Medical Officer, and he is thoroughly grounded in Starfleet protocols. You will report to him.
SEVEN: I understand.

[Briefing room]

CHAKOTAY: The Doctor's preparing the stasis units now. They should be ready by seventeen hundred hours.
PARIS: And how long will this be for?
JANEWAY: We don't know for certain. At least a month. Maybe longer, if the nebula is larger than we estimate.
TORRES: I've never been in long term stasis. Are there any side effects?
JANEWAY: The Doctor assures me it'll be just like taking a nap. We'll go into the units, our cardiopulmonary systems will be slowed, neural activity suspended, and we'll wake up feeling as though we'd had a good night's sleep.
KIM: There are things that can go wrong. At least, that's what I've read.
JANEWAY: We will be carefully monitored by Seven and the Doctor, who will check our vital signs four times a day, and take care of any other problems.
PARIS: I assume that we've explored all the alternatives?
JANEWAY: I think we're all feeling uneasy about this, and I'd be lying if I said I don't have concerns myself. And I think it's about loss of control. We always feel better if we think we're in charge of our own circumstances. In stasis, we're giving up that control, and no Starfleet officer likes to do that. But crews have been in stasis much longer than a month. I think we can handle this. All right. You're free until seventeen hundred hours. I'll make a ship-wide announcement when the Doctor's ready. Dismissed.
(Chakotay remains.)
JANEWAY: Something else?
CHAKOTAY: I want you to tell me that this isn't a mistake.
JANEWAY: Your turn to get reassurance?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. But my concern isn't about going into stasis. It's about who you're leaving in charge.
JANEWAY: You're worried about Seven.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you need to step outside yourself for a minute. Look at the fact that here's someone who's butted horns with you from the moment she came on board. Who disregards authority and actively disobeys orders when she doesn't agree with them.
JANEWAY: And this is the person I'm giving responsibility for the lives of this entire crew. I suppose you want me to tell you I'm not crazy?
CHAKOTAY: In a nutshell. I know your bond with Seven is unique, different from everyone else's. From the beginning, you've seen things in her that no one else could. But maybe you could help me understand some of those things.
JANEWAY: I don't know if I can. It's just instinct. There's something inside me that says she can be redeemed. In spite of her insolent attitude, I honestly believe she wants to do well by us.
CHAKOTAY: That's good enough for me.
JANEWAY: See you at seventeen hundred hours.

[Deck fourteen]

PARIS: If I have to take a nap for a month, I really would rather do it in my quarters.
EMH: Everyone's being relocated here to deck fourteen so we can monitor you more easily. Hop in.
KIM: Come on, Tom. Sleepy time.
PARIS: What if we had to get out in a hurry?
JANEWAY: You can unlock the unit from inside, Tom.
EMH: Do I detect a hint of claustrophobia, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Why do they have to design these things like coffins?
KIM: Should we replicate you a teddy bear?
EMH: Sleep tight.
(Kim and Paris lie down, and the EMH closes the transparent lids over them.)
EMH: Have no worries, Captain. You'll go to sleep and the next thing you know I'll be standing over you, telling you we're through the nebula.
JANEWAY: I'm leaving the ship in good hands. I have every confidence in both of you. See you in a month.
(Janeway gets into her stasis chamber.)
EMH: It's just the two of us now.

Personal log, Seven of Nine, stardate 51929.3. This is the tenth day of our journey through the Mutara nebula. I have created an efficient daily routine.

[Mess ball]

SEVEN: Nutritional supplement fourteen beta seven.
(The replicator produces a mug and she sits to drink it. Then she goes to Engineering to check the systems there.)

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Computer, adjust heading by point three four seven degrees starboard.
COMPUTER: Course adjusted.

[Corridor]

(Seven discovers Paris lying in the corridor.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.

[Doctor's office]

EMH: Go ahead.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris has left his stasis unit and is unconscious.
EMH [OC]: I'll be right there.

[Deck Fourteen]

EMH: Apparently he's more claustrophobic than I thought. But he doesn't seem to have suffered any ill effects.
SEVEN: Is this likely to happen again?
EMH: It's not unheard of for people to come out of stasis and start wandering. Leave it to Mister Paris to be just as much trouble now as when he's awake.
SEVEN: You knew this might happen. Why complain about it?
EMH: If you had even the slightest sense of humour, you'd realise I was making a small joke.
SEVEN: Very small.
EMH: Give me his vital signs, please.
SEVEN: Pulse, forty two. Body temperature, ninety seven point six. Blood pressure one hundred over fifty.
EMH: Good.
SEVEN: I will continue on my rounds.
EMH: I think not. We're paying a visit to the holodeck.
SEVEN: I have no time for frivolous pursuits.
EMH: This isn't frivolous. It's essential. You've been getting more irritable and short-tempered with each passing day.
SEVEN: So have you.
EMH: Only because I'm having to put up with you. I think you need a little brush-up course in getting along with people.
SEVEN: There is no one here to get along with.
EMH: I'm here. This isn't a suggestion and it's not a request. It's an order.

[Holodeck - Mess hall]

(A party is in progress, with the senior staff in casual dress.)
NEELIX: Try one, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Neelix.
NEELIX: Captain?
JANEWAY: Ooo, what have we here? Delicious!
NEELIX: Join the party, Seven. It's no fun to stand there by yourself.
SEVEN: I have no desire to have fun.
NEELIX: No?
SEVEN: I am attempting to recalibrate the warp field in order to resist the nebula's radiation. I understand you have some knowledge of warp field theory. Perhaps you could assist me.
NEELIX: I'd be happy to give it a try. Let's see, the subspace field matrix looks right.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.
SEVEN: Perhaps you could help as well. We're attempting to find a stronger warp field calibration.
JANEWAY: How interesting. Maybe if we vary the EM stress parameters, the warp field dynamic would increase.
NEELIX: Excellent idea, Captain. And if the warp coils were re-phased, it would increase power to the nacelles.
SEVEN: There is an additional problem. We must compensate for a subspace induction drag on the engines.
EMH: Pardon me, Captain, Mister Neelix. Computer, freeze programme. You're completely missing the point of this exercise. You're supposed to be mixing and mingling, not working on engineering problems.
SEVEN: You ordered me to participate in this programme. You did not specify topics of conversation.
EMH: You're splitting hairs. You know very well what purpose this programme is supposed to serve.
SEVEN: I find that it serves no purpose whatsoever.
EMH: Because you're being intentionally perverse.
SEVEN: Holodecks are a pointless endeavour, fulfilling some human need to fantasise. I have no such need.
EMH: What you need is some editorial skill in your self-expression. Between impulse and action there is a realm of good taste begging for your acquaintance.
SEVEN: I find your self-expression ponderous.
EMH: And I can't put up with this for another month.
SEVEN: We can arrange to avoid one another.
EMH: I wish it were that simple. Unfortunately, you have to report to me four times a day to keep me informed about the crew.
SEVEN: We can minimise those reports.
(Whumph!)
COMPUTER: Warning. Emergency procedures in effect.
EMH: Computer, what is the nature of the emergency?
COMPUTER: The antimatter storage tanks are failing.

[Corridor]

(Seven uses a wall console.)
SEVEN: A cascade effect is in progress. The warp field coils are compromised, primary deuterium tank is rupturing, and plasma conduits are ready to breach.
EMH: This is awful.
SEVEN: We have to eject the antimatter tanks.
EMH: We've got to coordinate the effort. You go to Engineering, I'll go to the bridge.

[Bridge]

EMH: Doctor to Seven.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: Yes, Doctor?
EMH [OC]: It's worse than we thought.

[Bridge]

EMH: Engineering is flooded with plasma. You'll never get in.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: I believe I can survive long enough to eject the assembly.
EMH [OC]: It's too late.

[Bridge]

EMH: Sensors show plasma conduits rupturing on decks seven and thirteen.

[Corridor]

SEVEN: I can do it.

[Bridge]

EMH: Seven. There's been another plasma discharge in Engineering. The hull is breaching. Get out!

[Engineering]

EMH [OC]: Seven, do you hear me?
SEVEN: It's all right, Doctor. False alarm. 
(A short time later, they are both looking at Vessel Schematic 4747.)
EMH: Look here. I think I've found the problem. There are malfunctions in a number of neural gel packs. As a result, false readings were fed to the sensors which detected an emergency when there was none.
SEVEN: We must repair them.
EMH: They seem to be in sequence six theta nine. We'll need replacement packs and a repair
(Seven gives the EMH a box.)
EMH: Repair kit.

[Jefferies Tube]

EMH: These tubes certainly weren't designed with creature comfort in mind. It seems to me the shipbuilders should've created a space in which one can walk upright.
SEVEN: But they did not. It doesn't help to complain about it now.
EMH: I'll complain if I want to. It's comforting.
SEVEN: We can access sequence six theta nine from this junction.
(Two gel packs are blue, but one is black.)
EMH: Odd. I've never seen this kind of neural activity in the gel packs.
SEVEN: In what sense?
EMH: The neurodes are discharging in random bursts. I would imagine the nebula activity is causing it. I'll this back to Sickbay for further study.
SEVEN: I will reroute the command processors to bypass this series.
EMH: This journey certainly hasn't lacked excitement. I can't complain about being bored.
SEVEN: Since you find it comforting, you'll undoubtedly find something else to complain about.
EMH: No doubt. You really should try it.
(The EMH glitches.)
SEVEN: What's happening?
EMH: My programme is degrading.
SEVEN: The mobile emitter?
EMH: I don't know. I have to get back to Sickbay. Hurry.
SEVEN: I am hurrying.
EMH: If the mobile emitter goes offline while I'm out of Sickbay, my programme may be irretrievable.
SEVEN: Don't panic. It's counterproductive.
EMH: That's easy for you to say. You're not facing cybernetic oblivion.
(They leave the tube and stand in a junction. The Doctor disappears then reappears.)
SEVEN: Doctor?
EMH: If that happens again, I'm a goner.

[Sickbay]

(They run in.)
EMH: Ah! Home sweet Sickbay. I never thought I'd be so glad to see these walls.
SEVEN: Give me the emitter. The electro-optic modulator is damaged.
EMH: You're right, it's worthless. There's no way I can risk using it now. I'm stuck here.
SEVEN: The nebula is having a deleterious effect on all the ship's technology.
EMH: And we still have weeks to go. It's up to you to keep the ship running. We can't afford to break down in this nebula.
SEVEN: I won't disappoint you.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven dreams that she is standing in a snowfield.)
COMPUTER: Oh six hundred hours. Regeneration sequence complete.
SEVEN: Personal log, Seven of Nine, stardate 51932.4. The twenty ninth day in the Mutara nebula. I believe I'm beginning to feel the effects of this prolonged isolation. My dreams have been disturbing. But I'm determined to fulfil my responsibilities. With the Doctor confined to Sickbay, I have taken on increasing duties. Ship's systems are beginning to require constant maintenance in order to avert disaster. This morning I must purge the auxiliary plasma vents. End log.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Computer, trim heading by point three one degrees port. Computer, respond. Computer, trim heading by point three one degrees port.
(The computer sounds ill.)
COMPUTER: Attempting to make correction. Stand by. Attempting to make correction. Unable to comply.
SEVEN: Manual override. Computer, initiate a level four diagnostic of your command processors.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic in progress.

[Turbolift]

SEVEN: Astrometrics.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete.
SEVEN: Analyse.
COMPUTER: Quantum failures are present in thirty three percent of gel pack relays.
SEVEN: Reroute all functional relays through subprocessor chi one four.
COMPUTER: (normal) Rerouting complete. Relay failures bypassed.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Display Voyager's current position within the nebula. How long to complete passage through the nebula?
COMPUTER: Six days, five hours.
SEVEN: Six days.

[Corridor]

PARIS [OC]: Seven. Help.
(Seven cannot see anyone. She enters -)

[Deck Fourteen]

(Everyone is in their stasis chamber, including Paris.)
COMPUTER: Proximity alert. Vessel approaching. The vessel is hailing.
SEVEN: Open a channel.

[Corridor]

COMPUTER: Channel open.
SEVEN: This is the Federation starship Voyager. State your identity.
TRAJIS [OC]: I'm Trajis Lo-Tarik. I'm in need of a microfusion chamber. Would you consider a trade?
SEVEN: Why are you in this nebula?
TRAJIS [OC]: Trying to get through it, as I imagine you are.
SEVEN: Do you have liquid helium?
TRAJIS [OC]: You're fortunate. I have an ample supply.
SEVEN: I'll beam you directly to our Cargo Bay.

[Cargo Bay]

(Seven is trying to find the microfusion chamber by searching the last inventory.)
TRAJIS: Seven of Nine. That's an unusual name. How did you get it?
SEVEN: It was my Borg designation.
TRAJIS: Borg? Never heard of them. Are you alone on this ship?
SEVEN: No. The entire crew is here in stasis, and our Doctor is in Sickbay.
TRAJIS: I'm both pilot and crew on my ship. Fortunately, I happen to be resistant to the effects of the nebula.
SEVEN: What about your technology? The radiation is causing damage to ours.
TRAJIS: I've had to rebuild my engines twice already. If you've been in the nebula for three weeks, you're doing well.
SEVEN: I am hopeful our propulsion system will remain operational for the next six days.
TRAJIS: I'll admit I was surprised to find another ship headed toward me. No one has ever managed to cross the nebula.
SEVEN: If it weren't necessary, we wouldn't be attempting it.
TRAJIS: I'm here by choice. I'm determined to be the first to get through. I've tried five times before and failed, but this time I'm sure I'll make it. I want to see what's on the other side.
SEVEN: It is nothing remarkable.
TRAJIS: But I'll be the first of my kind to see it. Tell me, how are you handling the loneliness?
SEVEN: What do you mean?
TRAJIS: You know what I mean. No matter what you say, you're all alone here.
SEVEN: The microfusion chamber you requested.
TRAJIS: I've heard that drones can't stand being alone. They're too used to the Collective.
SEVEN: How could you know that?
TRAJIS: It's true, isn't it?
SEVEN: You said you'd never heard of the Borg.
TRAJIS: Don't be offended. I've got no grudge with them.
SEVEN: You have what you asked for. Now leave.
TRAJIS: I thought we could keep each other company for a while. Maybe have something to eat.
SEVEN: No.
TRAJIS: And if I want to stay longer?
(Seven draws a phaser.)
SEVEN: You will not be accommodated.

[Corridor]

TRAJIS: There's no need for this, you know. I mean you no harm. I think maybe you're a little paranoid. That's what loneliness can do to you. You'd be a lot better off to spend some time with me. We could get to know each other.
SEVEN: Quiet.
PARIS [OC]: Seven, help me, Seven.
(Trajis has vanished. Seven runs and sees a shadow turning a corner.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor. We have an intruder on board.

[Sickbay]

EMH: He must have a cloaking device. Sensors show no alien lifesigns and no evidence of a ship. I've been working on my mobile emitter. I think I'm making progress, but I still can't leave Sickbay. You'll have to try to track him down. Arm yourself and use extreme caution.
COMPUTER: (slowly) Warning. Deuterium tank levels are fluctuating beyond acceptable tolerances.
EMH: The computer sounds like it needs a stimulant.
SEVEN: It has been experiencing relay failures. I have not been performing my maintenance duties.
EMH: Do what you have to, but keep an eye out for the alien. We have to assume he's up to no good. Seven? Are you frightened?
SEVEN: I am Borg.

[Corridor]

(Seven stalks the corridors with a phaser rifle, hearing all sorts of distant noises.)
SEVEN: Who's there?
PARIS [OC]: Seven. Help me, Seven.
NEELIX [OC]: I'm dying, Seven. Don't let me die.
JANEWAY [OC]: The lives of the crew are on your shoulders.
PARIS [OC]: Seven, help me.
KIM [OC]: Help, Seven, I need help.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We need you, Seven.
(A cacophony of overlapping voices and groans.)
TUVOK [OC]: Assist us.
NEELIX [OC]: I'm dying, Seven.
(Seven enters deck fourteen and checks the status of the stasis chambers. All is well, so she continues her search.)
TRAJIS [OC]: Seven of Nine. that's an unusual name. How did you get it? Don't want to answer me? That's all right, I don't mind. I know you're not yourself today. But you might be interested in what I'm doing now. I know your sensors can't detect me. So if you want to know where I am, you'll have to ask. Playing stubborn? That's a mistake. It could lead to an unfortunate accident. Just to prove I'm willing to give you a fair chance, I'll ask you. What would happen if the structural integrity around the warp coils collapsed? You wouldn't have much time to keep them from rupturing.
(Seven runs.)

[Engineering]

(All is well here.)
TRAJIS [OC]: I couldn't bring myself to destroy your ship. I hope you're not afraid of the dark.
(The lights go down.)
SEVEN: Where are you?
TRAJIS [OC]: Finally. I'm glad you're responding. It's going to be much more interesting if we play this game together.
SEVEN: Your location.
TRAJIS [OC]: A long way from you. On the bridge. Command centre of your ship, I believe. I can do just about anything from here.
PARIS [OC]: Seven, help.
(Paris and Kim on on the upper level. She climbs the ladder, leaving the rifle behind.)

[Engineering upper level]

(When she gets there, she sees them burst into flames. Not real. She goes to a console.)
SEVEN: Seven to Trajis. Are you still there?
TRAJIS [OC]: Of course. Do you think I'd leave now?
SEVEN: I'm enjoying this game. What's next?
TRAJIS [OC]: That's better. Well, let's just imagine that one of the photon torpedoes was activated but not ejected.
SEVEN: I would have to get to the torpedo bay quickly.
TRAJIS [OC]: Even then you might be too late. But of course you have to try.
SEVEN: Let's play another game. Let's imagine that the oxygen on the bridge has been depleted.
TRAJIS [OC]: What?
SEVEN: What do you suppose the results might be? Computer, seal the bridge with a level three forcefield.
(Sounds of Trajis gasping for breath.)
COMPUTER: Bridge sealed.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.

[Corridor]

EMH: I'm here.
SEVEN: I have incapacitated the alien. He will not trouble us again.
EMH: Good work. I have my mobile emitter back online.

[Engineering]

EMH [OC]: Where are you now?
SEVEN: In Engineering.
EMH [OC]: I'll be right there. I have interesting news about the neural gel packs.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
(Seven gets her rifle. Trajis enters.)
TRAJIS: In your heart you knew you'd see me again.
(Seven fires at Trajis. No effect.)
TRAJIS: You can't defeat me. You're too weak.
SEVEN: Don't come any closer.
TRAJIS: You couldn't stand being alone, could you? You felt vulnerable, afraid. Because you know what you are.
SEVEN: Stop.
TRAJIS: At first you thought you could become human, but now you know that's impossible, don't you? You're Borg. That's what you were meant to be.
(The warp core glow turns Borg green.)
TRAJIS: One of many. But your days of power are gone. You're alone now. Weak. Pathetic.
SEVEN: Don't come any closer or I'll kill you.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: Be careful, Doctor, he's dangerous.
(The EMH cannot see Trajis.)
EMH: Who are you talking to?
SEVEN: Where did he go?
EMH: There's no one else here.
SEVEN: He was. He was right here.
EMH: Seven, you're hallucinating.
SEVEN: No. I saw him.
EMH: There was no one else in this room.
(Seven gives the rifle to the EMH.)
SEVEN: You mean I imagined him?
EMH: Yes.
SEVEN: I heard Lieutenant Paris call for help. I saw him and the others. Did I imagine them as well?
EMH: I believe so. When I studied the gel pack, I discovered the radiation was producing a degradation in the synaptic relays. I'm guessing there's been a similar effect on your Borg implants. The radiation could be altering the neurotransmitter levels in your sensory nodes. That would explain why you're hearing voices, seeing images.
SEVEN: They seemed real.
EMH: Hallucinations usually are. That's what makes them so frightening.
SEVEN: Once, when I was a drone, I was separated from the Collective for two hours. I experienced panic and apprehension. I am feeling that way now.
EMH: I'll do everything I can to help you. We'll get you to Sickbay. An antipsychotic may help, at least until I determine just what neural functions are being affected.
(A console goes bang!)
SEVEN: What was that?
COMPUTER: Warning. Primary EPS conduits are overloading.
(The computer's voice slows and the EMH flickers.)
EMH: I tied my mobile emitter into the EPS conduits.
SEVEN: Computer, access the EPS conduits.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: My programme's going offline.
SEVEN: No.
COMPUTER: Warning. Primary EPS conduits overloading. Secondary systems are failing.
EMH: Seven, you've got to hang on. Repair the EPS conduits. Everything depends on you now.
SEVEN: I cannot function alone.
EMH: You have to. You're the way we can survive
(The EMH goes offline.)
SEVEN: No!

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Display Voyager's current position within the nebula.
KIM: It doesn't matter. You won't make it.
(Kim has radiation burns.)
SEVEN: Computer, how long until Voyager is out of the nebula?
COMPUTER: Seventeen hours, eleven minutes.
KIM: That's an eternity.
SEVEN: Go away.
KIM: You can try to shut me out, but it won't work.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion system failure in progress.

[Corridor]

(Filled with green mist and the sound of groaning.)
DRONE: Seven of Nine, Tertiary Adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. You have left the Collective. It was a foolish decision. Now you are alone. You have lost the many. You are only one. You have become human. Weak. Pathetic.
(Seven turns and runs. The drone is ahead of her again.)
DRONE: Humans do not have our strength. They are imperfect. Now you are imperfect as well.
SEVEN: No.
DRONE: You will not survive. You cannot survive without the Collective.
SEVEN: I will adapt.
DRONE: By becoming weaker. Less perfect.
SEVEN: I will adapt as an individual.
DRONE: One. One alone. A Borg cannot be one.
SEVEN: I will become stronger.
DRONE: A Borg cannot be one. She will die as one. Weak, detached, isolated, one Borg cannot survive.
SEVEN: I am an individual. I will survive alone.
DRONE: No. You are weak. You will die alone.

[Turbolift]

TRAJIS: He's right. You're in pain, Seven. I can help you.
SEVEN: Bridge.
TRAJIS: You don't have to beg me. You don't even have to ask. All you have to do is make a choice.
SEVEN: I can survive alone.
(The turbolift doors open into a Borg Cube.)
TRAJIS: That's home. That's where you belong.
SEVEN: No.
TRAJIS: End your pain. Just walk through that door and you'll never be alone again.
SEVEN: It's not real.
BORG [OC]: Seven of Nine. Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Bridge.

[Bridge]

(The bridge crew all have radiation burns.)
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine. You look a little worse for wear.
KIM: I didn't know she was still on board.
CHAKOTAY: I never wanted her here in the first place.
TUVOK: She won't be here long. She can't survive alone.
PARIS: I'm taking bets on how long she'll last.
CHAKOTAY: She'll fall apart before we leave the nebula.
KIM: And then everybody will die.
JANEWAY: Well, blame me. I put my trust in her. I should have known better.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion system failure in progress.
TUVOK: What is she doing now?
CHAKOTAY: She's trying to keep the engines online.
PARIS: Place your bets. Anyone think she can do it?
KIM: I'll lay odds she can't.
SEVEN: Computer, how long until the ship is out of the nebula?
COMPUTER: Forty one minutes.
JANEWAY: Too long. She won't make it.
KIM: That's an eternity.
SEVEN: Computer, reroute available power from weapons, sensors and environmental controls to the engines.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion system failure in progress.
SEVEN: Reroute all available power to the engines.
COMPUTER: Propulsion systems have failed. All engines are offline.
KIM: She's got herself a real problem now.
CHAKOTAY: I'll say. She's taken power from every available system and it's still not enough.
TUVOK: But if she fails to get this ship moving, everyone on board will die.
PARIS: What do you think she'll do?
JANEWAY: I know what she's thinking. She's thinking if she could take power from the stasis units on deck fourteen, she might be able to get those engines back online.
KIM: But that would mean sacrificing some of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think that would bother her too much.
TUVOK: What matters to Seven is efficiency. Sacrificing a few to save many, would be an efficient plan.
JANEWAY: She's already killed millions. Would a few more matter?
SEVEN: Computer, divert power from stasis units one through ten and reroute to the propulsion systems.
COMPUTER: Engines are back online.
SEVEN: Resume course.
KIM: Look at that. She did it.
JANEWAY: But those people she disconnected are going to die.
PARIS: I win. I knew she didn't care about them.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Come to watch them die?

[Deck Fourteen]

(Paris is writhing in his stasis chamber.)
COMPUTER: Warning. Power to stasis units has failed.
SEVEN: Computer, how long to complete passage through the nebula?
COMPUTER: Eleven minutes.
JANEWAY: They won't last that long. What do you do now, Seven? It's all up to you.
SEVEN: Computer, cut life support to all decks and reroute available power to the stasis units.
JANEWAY: That will keep them alive, but what about you? No oxygen, no heat. Goodbye, Seven.
SEVEN: I am Seven of Nine. I am alone, but I will adapt. I will
(Seven passes out.)

[Sickbay]

EMH: She's coming to.
(Seven tries to sit up on the biobed in the surgical bay,)
EMH: Not so fast. Get your bearings first.
SEVEN: The crew?
JANEWAY: We came through the nebula in fine shape, thanks to you.
CHAKOTAY: You were the one we almost lost. When the ship cleared the nebula, the Doctor came back online and found you unconscious. He reinitiated life support and woke the crew.
JANEWAY: He tells us you've had quite an adventure.
SEVEN: It was interesting.
JANEWAY: Well, when you're rested, I'd like to hear about it.
(Janeway and Chakotay leave.)
EMH: I'm proud of you, Seven. You performed admirably.
SEVEN: I am glad I was able to help.

[Mess hall]

KIM: Neelix, this soup is great. What is it?
NEELIX: It's my secret recipe. I've never told anyone what's in it.
PARIS: Why does that make me nervous?
TORRES: Oh, come on, Tom. Where's your spirit of adventure?
PARIS: Not in my stomach. Food and mystery don't go together. I like to know what I'm eating.
TORRES: Coward.
SEVEN: Lieutenants Paris and Torres. Ensign Kim.
KIM: Seven. I'm surprised to see you here.
SEVEN: May I join you?
PARIS: Sure. Have a seat.
TORRES: Have some soup. It's actually edible.
SEVEN: I don't require nourishment at this time. I felt the need for companionship.
PARIS: Well, after a month with only the Doc for company, I can understand it.
KIM: Yeah. What was that like, anyway, just the two of you?
SEVEN: The Doctor was quite helpful. I cannot fault him.
TORRES: Well, we all owe you.
PARIS: Yeah, just think, we could've died in those coffins.
SEVEN: I suspect you would've found a way out before that, Lieutenant.
KIM: What do you mean?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris refused to stay confined. On four separate occasions, the Doctor and I had to put him back into his stasis unit.
KIM: Were you locked in dark closets or something as a child?
PARIS: I just don't like closed places. I never have. I don't know why.
SEVEN: Perhaps you dislike being alone.


S4 E26
Hope and Fear
Stardate: 51978.2
Original Airdate: 20 May 1998

[Holodeck]
(A game of Velocity appears to consist of two players taking turns at shooting phasers at a flying target. It changes colour when a player hits it. Like squash, the target bounces off the walls, too. Janeway runs into the wall and gets knocked down, dropping her phaser. Then she grabs it up again and shoots the target square on.)
COMPUTER: Full impact. Final round to Janeway. Winner Janeway.
JANEWAY: Good game.
SEVEN: For you.
JANEWAY: Oh, come on, Seven. You won four out of ten rounds. Nothing to be ashamed of.
SEVEN: On the contrary. I have superior visual acuity and stamina. I should have won every round.
JANEWAY: Well, Velocity is more than a test of stamina. It's a game of wits.
SEVEN: You are a frustrating opponent. During the final round, after you dropped your phaser, you did not look at the disk, and yet you were able to acquire the target.
JANEWAY: Intuition.
SEVEN: Intuition is a human fallacy. The belief that you can predict random events.
JANEWAY: Oh, belief had nothing to do with it. At some level, conscious or otherwise, I was aware of several factors. The trajectory of the disk after I hit the wall, the sound it made on its return, and the shadow it cast on the hologrid.
SEVEN: Intriguing but implausible.
JANEWAY: I won, didn't I? Thanks for the match.
SEVEN: I wish to play again.
JANEWAY: Not today.
SEVEN: You are fatigued and concerned that I will defeat you.
JANEWAY: Tired? Yes. Concerned? No.
SEVEN: Computer, begin first round.
JANEWAY: Belay that command. Seven, try to be a sport. Game's over.

Captain's log, stardate 51978.2. It's been five months since we received the encoded message from the Alpha Quadrant. We know that the transmission was from Starfleet Command but we still can't decrypt it. B'Elanna thinks it's a lost cause, that too much of the datastream has been destroyed. But I haven't given up. I keep hoping inspiration will strike, somehow.

[Mess hall]

(Janeway is working on the decryption.)
CHAKOTAY: Good morning.
JANEWAY: What time is it?
CHAKOTAY: Oh five hundred.
JANEWAY: Oh. Well then, good morning.
CHAKOTAY: I just heard from Tom and Neelix. They're about to leave the trading colony.
JANEWAY: Any luck?
CHAKOTAY: According to Tom, the shuttle's so loaded down with supplies, he won't make half impulse. Neelix is asking permission to bring one of the locals on board. He's been very helpful, and Neelix wants to repay him by giving him passage to the next system.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
CHAKOTAY: You might want to grab some sleep. We've got a big day ahead.
JANEWAY: I will in a while.
CHAKOTAY: Still hunting for buried treasure?
JANEWAY: We've found the treasure, I just can't pick the lock. I've tried over fifty decryption algorithms. Every time I piece together a datablock, ten more come unravelled. What did Starfleet send us? A map? The location of a wormhole? If I could decode this today, Chakotay, we could be home tomorrow. Then again, it could be Admiral Chapman's recipe for the perfect pound cake. I've been pinning our hopes on this message, but I'm starting to wonder.
CHAKOTAY: One way or another, we've got to find out. I'll talk to B'Elanna. You could enlist Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: She should have a few Borg algorithms up her sleeve. If she's in the mood.
CHAKOTAY: Problems?
JANEWAY: I don't know if she's getting restless or if it's just me, but we're butting heads more than usual lately. She seems to challenge everything I say.
CHAKOTAY: She's learned a lot from you over the last year. Maybe the pupil thinks she's outgrowing the mentor.
JANEWAY: Maybe. Well, this mentor would like another cup of coffee. Will you join me?
CHAKOTAY: Love to.

[Cargo bay]

(The shuttlecraft has returned and is being unloaded.)
PARIS: This goes to Engineering. Sickbay. Storage.
(A crewwoman holds up a jellyfish.)
CHAKOTAY: I hope that's not going to the mess hall.
PARIS: I don't remember what this is. Neelix!
NEELIX: Captain, this man is a genius. I was trying to negotiate with a xenon-based lifeform when the Universal Translator went offline. Arturis here stepped in and acted as a perfect go-between, and he'd never heard either of our languages.
(Arturis is a bald, slightly large-headed humanoid.)
ARTURIS: Oh, they were simple. No insult intended.
PARIS: Neelix!
NEELIX: On my way. If you two will excuse me.
JANEWAY: Well, welcome to Voyager. We may be a linguistically simple folk but we're happy to give you a ride. Let's see if we can find you some quarters.
ARTURIS: Neelix was right. Voyager is a welcoming place.
JANEWAY: Well, we do our best.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I can't say I've ever met a living Universal Translator.
ARTURIS: My people have a way with languages. I myself know over four thousand.
JANEWAY: And to think I still struggle with basic Klingon. You couldn't have heard Neelix say more than a few phrases.
ARTURIS: It was all I needed. It was enough to grasp the grammar and syntax.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
ARTURIS: Not really. It's a natural ability. Some species are born with great physical prowess. Others, like yours, with a generosity of spirit. My people can see patterns where others see only confusion. Is something wrong?
JANEWAY: No. Tell me, how are you at computational languages? Algorithms, trinary syntax?
ARTURIS: It's all the same to me.
JANEWAY: I was wondering if you might do us another favour.

[Astrometrics lab]

ARTURIS: You weren't exaggerating, Captain. This datastream is badly damaged. I'd like to see the entire transmission again. Are you Borg?
SEVEN: Yes.
ARTURIS: You're much more attractive than the average drone.
SEVEN: I am no longer part of the Collective.
ARTURIS: I see, I see. I think I see the problem. May I?
JANEWAY: Please.
(Seven allows Arturis to use the console.)
JANEWAY: Have you encountered his people before?
SEVEN: Species one one six.
ARTURIS: Is that what you call us?
SEVEN: Yes. The Borg has never been able to assimilate them. Not yet.
JANEWAY: Seven.
ARTURIS: Oh, it's all right, Captain. The Borg Collective is like a force of nature. You don't feel anger toward a storm on the horizon, you just avoid it. Ah. Here it is. It's a simple matter of extracting the iconometric elements, and triaxilating a recursion matrix.
JANEWAY: Now why didn't I think of that?
ARTURIS: There's a great deal of information here, Captain. I think it might be useful to utilise the other monitors.
(They call the message up on the big screen.)
JANEWAY: You've done it.
ARTURIS: Almost. I've reconstructed over sixty eight kiloquads of information, but a lot of it is still garbled.
JANEWAY: What about that datablock. Fourteen beta?
ARTURIS: That part of the message is too degraded to recover.
SEVEN: Captain, I've found a spatial grid.
(6-98 381-33 02-77 913-41, I think.)
JANEWAY: They've marked a set of coordinates. It's less than ten light years from here.
SEVEN: Maybe Starfleet wants us to proceed to that location.
JANEWAY: Maybe. There's only one way to find out.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. Scan the vicinity.
TUVOK: I am picking up a vessel.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: Identify.
TUVOK: Unless I am mistaken, Captain, the warp signature is Starfleet.
(It is a sleek silver Delta wing.)
PARIS: I'll be damned. They came through.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Hailing them. No response.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
SEVEN: There is no organic matter of any kind.
KIM: No sign of damage to the outer hull. Primary systems are online including life support. Something must have happened to the crew.
JANEWAY: The answer is somewhere in that Starfleet transmission. We need to finish decoding it. May I call on your talents again?
ARTURIS: Of course.
JANEWAY: Take an away team. Secure the vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Tom. Tuvok.
ARTURIS: Captain. I won't pretend to know you well, but I am surprised you're not more encouraged by this discovery.
JANEWAY: I've learned to walk the line between hope and caution. We've had other opportunities that didn't work out. But I will admit, I'm leaning toward hope this time.

[Dauntless Bridge]

(The away team beam in to the rear of the bridge. According to the monitors around the walls, this is NX-01A.)
PARIS: Wow.
TUVOK: Wow indeed.
CHAKOTAY: I've never seen this kind of hull geometry. Looks like they've taken a whole new approach to starship design.
TUVOK: USS Dauntless. Registry NX-01A. Launch Date 51472.
CHAKOTAY: Sixty thousand light years in three months?
TUVOK: I'm trying to access the crew logs but there are none.
PARIS: I don't think there was a crew. This helm was set for auto-navigation to these coordinates.
TUVOK: It appears that Starfleet has provided us with a new ship.
CHAKOTAY: Let's not pack our bags just yet. I'd like to know how they
(Beep!)
PARIS: I'm reading power fluctuations in the warp core, if you can call it a warp core. I don't recognise this engine configuration.
(The ship shakes.)
CHAKOTAY: Let's go take a look.

[Dauntless Engineering]

(Instead of a tall warp core there is a hemisphere with a plasma globe inside it.)
PARIS: I think we've found our engine core.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of new warp drive?
PARIS: It's not antimatter, it's, I don't know what it is.
(He checks another console.)
PARIS: They call this thing a quantum slipstream drive.
TUVOK: Quantum slipstream.
CHAKOTAY: I've never seen that in the engineering manuals.
PARIS: The ship's powering up. Auto-navigation is kicking in.

[Voyager Bridge]

KIM: Bridge to Janeway. The vessel's moving away at high impulse.

[Astrometrics lab]

KIM [OC]: I can't raise the away team.
JANEWAY: Pursuit course, Ensign.

[Dauntless Engineering]

PARIS: I can't shut down the drive.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, disable propulsion.
(It is the normal Starfleet computer voice.)
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
PARIS: Hang on.
(The ship enters warp, not Andromeda-style slipstream.)

[Voyager Bridge]

KIM: Bridge to Janeway. They're gone.

[Dauntless Engineering]

(They hurtle down a Whovian space-time-like corridor.)
PARIS: Look at this. Energy from the quantum drive is being routed through the main deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Is that what's creating the slipstream?
PARIS: It looks that way.
TUVOK: Fascinating. Can you make it stop?
PARIS: I'll try accessing helm controls. We're back in normal space.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for Voyager.
TUVOK: No sign of them. Commander, we've travelled over fifteen light years.

Captain's log, supplemental. After two days at high warp, we've rendezvoused with the Dauntless. Arturis has helped us reconstruct most of the Starfleet message. The pieces of this puzzle are finally coming together.

[Briefing room]

ADMIRAL HAYES [on monitor]: Slipstream technology is experimental and high risk, but it's come a long way in the past year. We've conducted forty seven trial runs, all of them successful. But each flight lasted only five days. In order to reach Earth, you'd have to remain at slipstream velocities for a full three months. Can your crew survive that long? We believe they can, and we encourage you to try. Everything you'll need is on the Dauntless. Power cells, supplies, living quarters. Safe journey. We hope to see you soon.
JANEWAY: Admiral Hayes. Good man, fine officer, bit of a windbag. Let's talk about the risk. Doctor?
EMH: I've examined the away team for signs of cell damage or physiological stress. Nothing. Their little joyride didn't harm them in the slightest.
JANEWAY: Long term effects?
EMH: I'm running medical projections right now. So far, the results are encouraging.
JANEWAY: And the Dauntless itself?
CHAKOTAY: I'd say it's in pretty good shape, considering.
TORRES: I've been looking over the primary systems. Helm, Ops, Tactical, they're comparable to Voyager's. But it's a lean ship, Captain. No shuttlecraft, only one transporter, no holodecks, no replicators.
JANEWAY: Well, Mister Neelix, you may have your work cut out for you.
NEELIX: Ready and willing, Captain.
KIM: So what are we waiting for?
SEVEN: Your enthusiasm is premature. Voyager is a proven vessel. It would be reckless to abandon it so quickly.
KIM: Come on, where's that Borg spirit? We'll adapt.
SEVEN: My Borg spirit gives me an objectivity you lack.
TUVOK: She has a point. This would mean leaving Voyager behind.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way we could modify Voyager to create a slipstream?
PARIS: In theory, but I don't think the ship would hold up very long under the quantum stresses.
JANEWAY: Try to make the modifications. If there's a way we can bring Voyager along for the ride, I'm all for it. Harry, B'Elanna, I want you to take an Engineering team down to the Dauntless. Start working on a way to shut down the slipstream drive at a moment's notice.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Once we have that safeguard in place, we can start making the test flights. I want this entire crew to familiarise themselves with that ship. See to it. Dismissed. Tuvok. Big day.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: A way home. We've waited for this moment for years. Why don't I feel more enthusiastic?
TUVOK: Perhaps my mental discipline is rubbing off on you.
JANEWAY: Perhaps. What do you think about this little miracle of ours?
TUVOK: I share your concern about the crew's safety. We must take every precaution.
JANEWAY: Somehow I don't think standard diagnostics and security protocols are going to make me feel any better.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: All of this is just a little too perfect. The alien genius with the answers to all our problems. A message from Starfleet telling us everything we want to hear. A starship delivered right to our doorstep. What more could we ask for? They even turned down the beds. The only thing missing was chocolates on the pillows.
TUVOK: It does seem convenient.
JANEWAY: I can't put my finger on it, but from the moment this all started I sensed something was wrong.
TUVOK: It started when Arturis boarded Voyager.
JANEWAY: Exactly. We'll proceed as planned, but I want you to investigate that ship from stem to stern. Keep an eye on our guest. See if you can find out more about him.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Let's hope we're just suffering from some good old-fashioned paranoia. Keep me posted.

Captain's log, supplemental. So far, the crew hasn't found any evidence to support my doubts about Arturis. Nevertheless, I've told them to keep looking and to keep their optimism in check. But that's one order I don't expect them to follow to the letter.

Daily log, Seven of Nine, Stardate 51981.6. I've analysed the quantum slipstream technology of the Dauntless. It is similar to the transwarp drive used by the Borg. As a result, my expertise will be crucial to the mission's success. Voyager's crew is counting on that success but I find myself ambivalent, so I'm carrying out my assignment, nothing more.

(Janeway's log continues.) Despite my apprehension, I can't help but wonder what I'll be doing in three months' time. Still guiding Voyager through the Delta Quadrant, searching for a way home, or looking up old friends in Indiana?

(Seven's log continues.) If we do return to Sector zero zero one, will I adapt to human civilisation? A single Borg among billions of individuals?

[Dauntless Engineering]

TORRES: Initiate emergency shutdown on my mark. Now.
KIM: Quantum field strength down to ninety percent. Eighty percent. It's levelling off at seventy five.
SEVEN: We need to dampen the field by at least fifty percent.
TORRES: Try reversing the quantum field polarities.
KIM: Seventy percent. Fifty five. Forty nine percent.
TORRES: We did it. We've got our safety net.
KIM: One step closer to home.
SEVEN: Tuvok wants us to run a metallurgical analysis of the bulkheads to look for anything unusual.
TORRES: Thank you. You two run the analysis. I'll be on the bridge with Arturis. Our resident genius said he'd help me figure out how to use the control sequencers.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, you seem eager to return to Earth.
TORRES: Eager? I wouldn't go that far.
SEVEN: You were a member of the Maquis. Starfleet Command will no doubt hold you responsible for a multitude of crimes. You will find nothing on Earth but adversity.
TORRES: That's looking on the bright side. Let's put it this way. I'd rather face the music back home than spend the rest of my life in the Delta Quadrant. What about you? Looking forward to seeing Earth?
SEVEN: No.
TORRES: I'm not surprised. You think people are going to resent an ex-Maquis? What about an ex-drone? We'll be outcasts together. I'm kidding, Seven. It's a joke. Work on that sense of humour. It'll help you make friends on Earth.
KIM: Seven, can you give me a hand down here? I'm picking up an anomalous energy surge.
SEVEN: There are no power conduits running through this section.
KIM: Believe me, Seven, one look at that big blue marble, and you'll fall in love. It's got just about every ecosystem you can think of, and hundreds of different humanoid species live there. Bolians, Vulcans, Ktarians. If you like Ktarians. And there are several other planets to choose from.
SEVEN: If you will excuse me, Ensign, I must speak to the captain.
KIM: Seven. For what's it worth, it won't be the same without you.
(Seven smiles slightly and leaves. Kim tracks his anomolous reading to inside a panel. He reaches in with his tricorder and gets a slight shock, then the whole wall panel display wibbles briefly.)
KIM: Kim to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here.
KIM: I'm on the Dauntless, in the engine room, and I've found something

[Bridge]

KIM [OC]: That qualifies as unusual.
TUVOK: I'll be right there.

[Astrometrics]

JANEWAY: Computer, display datablock fourteen beta, auxiliary display.
(The doors open.)
JANEWAY: Seven, I could use your help. I'm trying to reconstruct the last fragment of the Starfleet message.
SEVEN: Arturis said it was irreparably damaged.
JANEWAY: I know, but I think he gave up too easily.
SEVEN: Intuition?
JANEWAY: It's intuition if I'm right. I've designed a new decryption algorithm. Let's give it a try.
SEVEN: Captain. I will not be going with you to the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: I can understand your reluctance. It's been hard enough dealing with a crew of a hundred and fifty individual humans. The prospect of an entire planet must be overwhelming.
SEVEN: I am not overwhelmed. I simply do not wish to live among humans.
JANEWAY: Well, whether you like it or not, you're one of us. You've come a long way from that drone who stepped out of a Borg alcove nine months ago. Don't turn your back on humanity now. Not when you're about to take your biggest step. Earth. Your home.
SEVEN: I may have come a long way, but not in the direction you think. You've attempted to influence my development. You exposed me to your culture, you ideals. You hoped to shape me in your own image. But you have failed. You may have noticed our tendency to disagree.
JANEWAY: Oh, I've noticed.
SEVEN: Then you must also recognise that I do not share your values. Your desire to explore space is inefficient. Your need for familial connections is a weakness. Your infatuation with this planet is irrational.
JANEWAY: I won't argue that you've turned out differently than I expected, and that we often have conflicting points of view. But right now, the stakes are higher. This crew needs your expertise. Abandon them and you diminish their chances of getting home.
SEVEN: Irrelevant.
JANEWAY: No, it's not. We've given you a lot, Seven. It's time you gave something in return.
SEVEN: I have, on many occasions. Now I refuse.
JANEWAY: What would you do, go back to the Collective?
SEVEN: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Then what exactly do you have in mind?
SEVEN: I don't know.
JANEWAY: That's my point. You're asking me to cast you adrift in the Delta Quadrant alone and without support. I wouldn't grant that request to any member of this crew because it's too dangerous.
SEVEN: I will survive.
JANEWAY: On what, Borg perfection?
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: I don't buy it. This isn't about your independence or your superiority. This is about your fear. You're not making this choice because you've outgrown humanity. I think you're afraid to go back to Earth.
(Beep.)
JANEWAY: The algorithm's working. It's reconstructing the datablock. That's strange, I thought we already recovered this part of the message.
SEVEN: Perhaps it is an addendum from the Admiral. You did designate him a windbag.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't think so. The data index doesn't match. This is a completely different message.
ADMIRAL HAYES [on monitor]: Apologies from everyone at Starfleet Command. We've had our best people working around the clock, trying to find a wormhole, a new means of propulsion, anything to get you home. But despite our best efforts. I know it's not what you were hoping, but we've sent you all the data we've collected on the Delta Quadrant. With any luck, you'll find at least some part of it useful. Maybe enough to shave a few years off your journey. Safe journey. We hope to see you soon.
SEVEN: Your intuition was correct.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately.
SEVEN: Arturis must have created a false message.
JANEWAY: It sure as hell looks that way. Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: My suspicions have been confirmed.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Arturis tampered with Starfleet's message. 

[Dauntless Engineering]

JANEWAY [OC]: The Dauntless isn't what it appears to be.
TUVOK: I agree. We've discovered alien technology behind a bulkhead

[Corridor]

TUVOK [OC]:  In Engineering. I can't identify it.
JANEWAY: Where's Arturis now?

[Dauntless Engineering]

TUVOK: On the Dauntless bridge, working with Lieutenant Torres.
JANEWAY [OC]: Go to the bridge, but don't tip our hand.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I'll be there with a full security team within minutes.

[Dauntless Engineering]

TUVOK: Understood.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Let's get weapons.

[Dauntless Bridge]

(Arturis goes to the helm and is about to press a button flashing red.)
TORRES: Don't touch that! You almost kicked us into slipstream drive.
ARTURIS: Oh. I wouldn't want to do that. Kucha meRah.
(He should say jIQaqh, according to Klingonese experts.)
TORRES: No problem. You speak Klingon.
ARTURIS: I do now. Your captain was kind enough to let me review your linguistic database.
TORRES: I only know speak a few phrases myself.
ARTURIS: Oh, shame. It's a robust language.
TORRES: A little too robust for me.
(Janeway beams in with Seven and two security guards.)
JANEWAY: Evacuate the repair teams.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it. Explain yourself.
ARTURIS: I don't know what you're talking about.
JANEWAY: You fabricated the message from Starfleet. I recovered the real transmission. The one you said was irreparably damaged.
ARTURIS: That's absurd.
JANEWAY: Starfleet didn't send us this vessel and you're not here to help. Is this your ship?
ARTURIS: Please, stay calm, There must be an explanation.
JANEWAY: I tried to ignore my gut feelings, because I got carried away by the excitement of getting home. But you preyed on that, didn't you? You took advantage of our hopes and now I want to know why.
ARTURIS: I believe that there is a threat here, Captain, but not from me. I didn't feel it was my place to make accusations, but I saw her reconfigure several key algorithms two days ago in your Astrometrics lab, and it seemed obvious. She must have been tampering with the Starfleet message.
SEVEN: You are lying.
ARTURIS: She's been sabotaging your every effort to reach Earth. You don't have to believe me, Captain. You can find all the evidence you need in her personal database.
JANEWAY: Evidence you undoubtedly put there yourself just in case you got caught. Take him to Voyager. Throw him the brig.
(Arturis beats off the two security guards. Tuvok phasers him in the abdomen, but he still manages to pull a lever before they can drag him away from the helm. The Dauntless transforms into an alien vessel, primary motif - red. Then Arturis manages to set up a forcefield.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. Beam us out of here.

[Voyager Bridge]

KIM: He's trying to deflect our transporters. Stand by.
(Tuvok is beamed away, then the security personnel. Janeway and Seven start to dematerialise, then solidify again.)
KIM:  I've got everyone but Seven and the Captain. He's found a way to block their transport.
PARIS: The ship's going into slipstream mode.
CHAKOTAY: Pursuit course.
PARIS: We lost them, Commander.
(Tuvok enters.)
CHAKOTAY: Tom, bring the warp core modifications online. We're going after them.
PARIS: Sir, we haven't even had a trial run yet.
CHAKOTAY: There's no time like the present.

[Dauntless Bridge]

SEVEN: Where are you taking us?
ARTURIS: Home.
JANEWAY: How'd you create the Starfleet bridge? Holograms?
ARTURIS: Particle synthesis. Beyond your understanding.
JANEWAY: Is this what your people do? Prey on innocent ships?
ARTURIS: Innocent? Typical of Captain Janeway. Self-righteous.
JANEWAY: If I've offended you or your people in some way, please tell me.
ARTURIS: Diplomacy, Captain? Your diplomacy destroyed my world.
JANEWAY: What? What are you saying?
ARTURIS: You negotiated an agreement with the Borg Collective. Safe passage through their space. And in return, you helped them defeat one of their enemies.
SEVEN: Species eight four seven two.
ARTURIS: In your colourful language, yes. Species eight four seven two. Did it ever occur to you that there were those of us in the Delta Quadrant who had a vested interest in that war? Victory would have meant the annihilation of the Borg, but you couldn't see beyond the bow of your own ship!
JANEWAY: In my estimation, Species eight four seven two posed a greater threat than the Borg.
ARTURIS: Who are you to make that decision? A stranger to this Quadrant.
JANEWAY: There wasn't exactly time to take a poll. I had to act quickly.
ARTURIS: My people managed to elude the Borg for centuries. Outwitting them, always one step ahead. But in recent years, the Borg began to weaken our defences. They were closing in and Species eight four seven two was our last hope to defeat them. You took that away from us! The outer colonies were the first to fall. Twenty three in a matter of hours. Our sentry vessels tossed aside, no defence against the storm. By the time they'd surrounded our star system, hundreds of Cubes, we had already surrendered to our own terror. A few of us managed to survive. Ten, twenty thousand. I was fortunate. I escaped with a vessel. Alone, but alive. I don't blame them. They were just drones, acting with their Collective instinct. You, you had a choice!
JANEWAY: I'm sorry for what happened to your people, but try to understand. I couldn't have known.
ARTURIS: It took me months to find you. I watched and waited for my opportunity to make you pay for what you'd done. Then the Starfleet message, and I knew that your selfish desire to get home would surface again. That I could lure you to this vessel. That I could see to it that you'd all be assimilated and spend the rest of eternity as Borg. I was hoping to get your entire crew, but I'll settle for the two of you. In a matter of hours, this ship will return to my homeworld. Inside Borg space.
SEVEN: When that happens, you will be assimilated as well.
ARTURIS: That's irrelevant. This is what you wanted all along, isn't it? To go back to your Collective? You should thank me.

[Voyager Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Report.
PARIS: We're at full impulse, but we're not breaking through the quantum barrier.
TUVOK: I'm having trouble controlling the field parameters. I need more power to the deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES [OC]: I'm already on it, Commander.

[Voyager Engineering]

TORRES: Stand by. Reroute auxiliary power to Deflector Control. Make sure that quantum warp field is stable.
CREWMAN: Aye, Lieutenant.

[Voyager Bridge]

TUVOK: Deflector at maximum. I'm focusing the quantum field.
KIM: Make it quick. Hull temperature's at critical.
(Voyager enters the tunnel.)
PARIS: We're at slipstream velocity.
KIM: Structural integrity's down by nine percent. We've got less than an hour before the hull starts to buckle.
PARIS: I've located their slipstream. I'm aligning ours to match. We're right behind them.
CHAKOTAY: How far behind?
PARIS: Just a few minutes.
TUVOK: Is there any way to increase our speed?
PARIS: None. We're at maximum.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain course. If I know the captain, she's already got a plan.

[Dauntless Brig]

JANEWAY: Any ideas?
SEVEN: Not presently.
JANEWAY: We'd better think of something. We come face to face with your former family in less than an hour, and that's one reunion I'd like to miss. Unless of course, you're looking forward to rejoining the Collective?
SEVEN: I do not believe I am.
JANEWAY: Not the ringing opposition I was hoping for, but I'll take it. A drone could walk through this forcefield like it was thin air. Is there enough Borg technology left in your body to let it adapt?
SEVEN: If I activate the appropriate nanoprobes, I could alter my bio-electric field. However, I would need to adjust my cranial implant.
JANEWAY: Would a micro-filament do the trick?
SEVEN: It might.
JANEWAY: Then let's get you one. Once you get outside, access that control panel and disable the forcefield. Then we'll try to reach the engine room.
SEVEN: And employ the emergency shutdown procedure.
(Janeway opens her comm. badge and takes out an invisible wire.)
SEVEN: Sufficient. You will need to cross-link the third and sixth nodules.
(Janeway uses the wire on the implant over Seven's eye.)
JANEWAY: Déjà-vu.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: As I recall, this is where our relationship began. In a brig, nine months ago. I severed you from the Collective and you weren't exactly happy about it.
SEVEN: No, I was not.
JANEWAY: In case I never get a chance to say this, I realise that I've been hard on you at times. But it was never out of anger, or regret that I brought you on board. I'm your Captain. That means I can't always be your friend. Understand?
SEVEN: No. However, if we are assimilated, our thoughts will become one, and I'm sure I will understand perfectly. A joke, Captain. You yourself have encouraged me to use my sense of humour.
JANEWAY: It's nice to know you've taken some of my advice to heart.
SEVEN: You were correct. My desire to remain in the Delta Quadrant was based on fear. I am no longer Borg, but the prospect of becoming human is unsettling. I don't know where I belong.
JANEWAY: You belong with us.
SEVEN: The adaptations are complete.
(Seven steps through the forcefield and goes to a control panel. The computer alerts Arturis on the bridge. The forcefield is lowered.)
JANEWAY: We're in business.

[Dauntless Engineering]

(The consoles are still in Starfleet configuration.)
SEVEN: I can't initiate the emergency shutdown.
JANEWAY: Our commands are being blocked from the bridge. He's detected us.
SEVEN: The ship's velocity has just increased. At our present speed, we will enter Borg space in less than twelve minutes.
JANEWAY: Do we still have access to the power distribution grid?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: If we can't throw on the brakes, let's swerve the wheel. Send a power surge into the starboard thrusters.
SEVEN: The torsional stress at these speeds could tear the ship apart.
JANEWAY: It's either that or join the Hive. Do it. If we're still in one piece, try to gain control of navigation. I'll be on the bridge. We have a game of Velocity scheduled for tomorrow, holodeck one. I expect you to keep the appointment.
SEVEN: Aye, Captain.

[Dauntless Bridge]

(The Dauntless rolls and yaws to port, throwing Arturis to the deck. He struggles against the g-forces to get back and level it off. Janeway enters.)
.JANEWAY: Sorry about the bumpy ride.
ARTURIS: You can slow this ship down, but you can't stop it. In four minutes, Captain Janeway will be gone and a new drone will be born.
JANEWAY: Don't count on it. Seven of Nine has accessed your navigational systems. You taught us how to use this ship a little too well. I can't begin to imagine your loss, but try to see beyond your desire for revenge.
ARTURIS: Revenge is all I have left.
JANEWAY: No. As long you're alive there's hope. Your people's accomplishments, their knowledge, their dignity, can survive in you. End this.
(A console explodes in Engineering.)
ARTURIS: I've just destroyed the navigational controls. No one can stop this ship now. Not even me. Two minutes to Borg space.
(An impact knocks him to the deck.)

[Voyager Bridge]

(Voyager is firing torpedoes in the slipstream. Most miss.)
TUVOK: Direct hit. The vessel's shields are down. Transporters standing by.
CHAKOTAY: Get a lock on our people.

[Dauntless Bridge]

(The helm explodes. Arturis goes to rear station.)
ARTURIS: Voyager.
JANEWAY: Come with me. It's not too late.
(Arturis fires his weapon as she dematerialises.)
ARTURIS: It is for you.

[Voyager Bridge]

KIM: I've got them, Commander, Transporter Room two.
CHAKOTAY: Alter our slipstream. Hard starboard. Take us back the way we came.
(Voyager diverts down a side tunnel.)

[Dauntless Bridge]

(The Dauntless returns to normal space near a group of Cubes.)
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.

Captain's log, supplemental. We remained in the quantum slipstream for an hour before it finally collapsed. Our diagnostics have concluded that we can't risk using this technology again.  But we did manage to get three hundred light years closer to home.

[Holodeck]

(The scheduled game of Velocity.)
COMPUTER: Full impact. Final round to Janeway. Winner, Janeway.
JANEWAY: Nice play. You almost had me.
SEVEN: Almost.
JANEWAY: Go again?
SEVEN: I must report to the Astrometrics lab. There is work to be done.
JANEWAY: Work? I gave the crew strict orders to take some R and R over the next few days, and that includes you.
SEVEN: There are more pressing needs. I am attempting to design another method of travelling at slipstream velocities without damaging Voyager.
JANEWAY: I thought that was impossible.
SEVEN: Impossible is a word that humans use far too often. I wish to continue my efforts.
JANEWAY: A few days ago you were ready to abandon ship, and here you are, practically laying in a course to Earth.
SEVEN: As we approached Borg space I began to re-evaluate my future. The prospect of becoming a drone was unappealing.
JANEWAY: Sometimes you've got to look back in order to move forward. Sounds to me like you're starting to embrace your humanity.
SEVEN: No. But as I said, nothing is impossible.
JANEWAY: Computer. One more game.
(The disk appears and flies around Seven. She fires at it, and us.)
