S5 E15
Dark Frontier Part 1
Stardate: 52619.2
Original Airdate: 17 February 1999

[Borg Probe Vessel]
BORG [OC]: A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid one one six. Activate. Alter course to intercept.
(Borg drones start to go about their business.)
BORG [OC]: Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, Intrepid Class, one hundred forty three lifeforms. Prepare for assimilation. We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Break off your pursuit or we'll open fire.
BORG [OC]: Irrelevant.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Is it? You've scanned our vessel. You know we can match your firepower.
BORG [OC]: You will be assimilated.
(They fire at Voyager, with no effect. Voyager returns fire, and makes things go Bang!)
BORG [OC]: Regenerate primary shield matrix. Remodulate weapons.
(A photon torpedo is beamed inside the Borg vessel.)
BORG [OC]:  Security breach. Starfleet photon torpedo. Disarm weapon.
(A drone opens the casing. KaBOOM!)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I thought we were trying to disable it.
SEVEN: The torpedo detonated near the power matrix. It caused a chain reaction.
JANEWAY: Survivors?.
TUVOK: None.
JANEWAY: Debris status.
KIM: There's a few components intact, but they're badly damaged.
JANEWAY: Begin a salvage operation.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: There might be something we can use. Weapons, a transwarp coil. I don't know about the rest of you, but I feel lucky today.

[Cargo Bay two]

(The savage operation has yielded lots of pieces.)
JANEWAY: Now, this is how I prefer the Borg. In pieces.
CHAKOTAY: Eight kilotons of debris, most of it hull fragments. So far we've recovered two power nodes and a dozen plasma conduits, all in working order.
JANEWAY: Their propulsion system, anything left?
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna found a transwarp coil.
(Janeway picks up a metal sphere.)
JANEWAY: It's lighter than I expected. It must be some kind of polytrinic alloy. Let's hope our little skirmish got back to the hive mind. Maybe they'll think twice before they attack us again.
CHAKOTAY: It was only a probe. Next time, we might not be so lucky.
KIM: Captain, don't touch that.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know, but a few minutes ago it was crawling around the floor. I think it's some kind of auto-regeneration unit.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning. By my count, we've added at least two years to our journey by avoiding the Borg. I'm tired of turning tail every time we detect a Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Better safe than assimilated,
JANEWAY: Mmm.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should go to red alert and get it over with.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You're about to drop one of your bombshells.
JANEWAY: Now what makes you say that?  
CHAKOTAY: The way you fiddle with your com. badge. You do it every time.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have to keep an eye on that.
EMH: Eureka! I was hoping to find one of these. It's a servo-armature from a medical repair drone. Laser scalpel, biomolecular scanner, micro-suture, all rolled into one instrument.
PARIS: No Federation Sickbay should be without one.
EMH: This could revolutionise the way that I perform surgery.
JANEWAY: Excellent. Why don't you deactivate it for now?
TORRES: Remodulate the coil frequency.
SEVEN: No effect.
TORRES: Try again.
SEVEN: The field regulator is fused.
CHAKOTAY: What seems to be the problem?
TORRES: We can't activate the transwarp coil.
SEVEN: When a Borg vessel is critically damaged, all of its vital technology self-destructs. The coil is beyond repair.
CHAKOTAY: At least the Doctor found a new toy.
SEVEN: Captain. Datanodes. One of them is a drone manifest, the other contains tactical information.
CHAKOTAY: Specifically?
SEVEN: Long range sensor telemetry, assimilation logistics and vessel movements for a radius of thirty light years.
JANEWAY: Well, let's take a look.
SEVEN: I'll need to convert the information to Starfleet parameters.
JANEWAY: Time?
SEVEN: Two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: After nine hours staring at that debris, I was beginning to feel like a drone.
KIM: I could use a shower.
PARIS: Do Borg shower? Neelix, we need a couple of beers.
NEELIX: Name your malt.
PARIS: Ktarian. Replicate a pint for yourself, because we're going to toast the man of the hour.
NEELIX: Oh?
PARIS: It was Harry's idea to beam over a photon torpedo while they were remodulating their shields.
KIM: I didn't think they'd fall for it.
PARIS: Ah, but they did. Hook, line and sinker. Oh, I would have loved to have seen the look on their faces. Boom!
KIM: To be honest, I wish the boom had been a bit smaller. We were only trying to disable them.
(Seven enters.)
PARIS: They were drones, Harry. Mindless automatons. We did them a favour.
KIM: Seven.
PARIS: Look, I didn't mean anything by that.
SEVEN: Your apology is irrelevant. It is impossible to offend a mindless drone.
(Neelix delivers the beers, which have massive foam heads on them.)
PARIS: Cheers.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I was able to recover sixty two percent of the data. This is an isogrid of Borg tactical movements across twenty five sectors.
JANEWAY: Are there any dangers along our present course?
SEVEN: There are three Cubes approximately nine light years away, travelling on a trajectory parallel to our own. They do not pose a threat.
JANEWAY: What about that vessel?
SEVEN: It's a scout ship, eight light years away, travelling at warp two. The ship is heavily damaged.
TUVOK: Was it attacked?
SEVEN: No. An ion storm. The Sphere is presently regenerating. That explains why it is travelling at low warp.
JANEWAY: Limping home.
SEVEN: In a manner of speaking.
JANEWAY: I want a detailed schematic of this vessel, down to the power distribution nodes. I think we've just struck gold.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: So what we have here in two simple words is, Fort Knox.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: Tom, translate?
PARIS: Fort Knox. The largest repository of gold bullion in Earth's history. Over fifty metric tons worth over nine trillion U.S. dollars.
JANEWAY: Keep going.
PARIS: Well, er, when the new world economy took shape in the late twenty second century and money went the way of the dinosaur, Fort Knox was turned into a museum.
JANEWAY: And no one ever managed to break into that facility, right?
PARIS: Well, a couple of Ferengi tried about ten years ago, but other than that, it's considered impenetrable.
CHAKOTAY: Are you planning a heist?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact. Except we're not chasing gold. We're going to steal a transwarp coil. Think it might come in handy?
TORRES: If I could equip our engines with even one coil, we could shave about twenty years off this trip.
TUVOK: Do you believe the Borg sphere is damaged enough for us to penetrate its defences?
JANEWAY: Long enough to take what we want and get out in one piece. but we'd have to plan this operation down to the millisecond. There would be no margin for error. As I see it, we plan an intercept course that won't attract their attention, then create a diversion to keep them occupied so we can send in an away team to obtain the technology.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to see the data on that Sphere. We might be able to recreate parts of it on the holodeck, run a few tactical simulations.
JANEWAY: It's all yours.
TORRES: We need to mask our warp signature. I've got a few Maquis tricks up my sleeve. They're not exactly Starfleet approved, but.
JANEWAY: This is no time for protocol. Get started. The sphere is three days away by maximum warp. Set a course. Chakotay, I want an outline for our heist by tomorrow morning. We've proven ourselves against the Borg once before, twice before, but we're always the ones under attack. I think it's time to do a little assimilating of our own, hmm? Dismissed.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I was hoping you'd be a little more vocal. Any thoughts?
SEVEN: Your plan is ambitious. There are many variables. But it can succeed.
JANEWAY: I'd like to narrow that list of variables. I was hoping your parents might provide us with a few insights. I've been looking over the records we found on the U.S.S. Raven. Your parents kept extensive field notes, detailed journals. There are over nine thousand log entries alone.
SEVEN: The information is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: On the contrary, Seven. They spent their careers studying the Borg. They tracked a cube at close range for what, two years?
SEVEN: Three.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say that made them experts. I want you to study their research. Look for any data that might give us a tactical edge.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated. Obviously their tactics were flawed.
JANEWAY: Look, these records have been collecting dust in our database for over a year. You say they're irrelevant, and I say you've been avoiding them. You're the best person for the job, but I'll assign it to Chakotay if I
SEVEN: No. The information belongs to me. I will read it.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Neelix brings in a case of PADDs.)
SEVEN: You're late.
NEELIX: Sorry. It took longer than I expected to download these records. This is only the first batch. Your parents sure had a lot to say. I organised the information by category. Field notes, personal logs, biokinetic analyses. I don't mean to pry, but is it true your parents were studying the Borg?
SEVEN: Yes. The Hansens were exobiologists.
NEELIX: Fascinating. They must have been very courageous.
SEVEN: They were misguided.
NEELIX: A faded holo-image. That's all I've got left of my family. A picture of my sister. Except, of course, what I keep in here. (his heart) What I wouldn't give for a treasure trove like this. Well, I'd better get started on the rest of those files.
(Neelix leaves. Seven takes the first PADD.)
MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32611.4. It's about time. The Federation Council on Exobiology has given us final approval. Starfleet's still concerned about security issues but they've agreed not to stand in our way. We've said our goodbyes, and we're ready to start chasing our theories about the Borg.

[Annika's room]

(Little Annika is playing with a model of a Borg Cube.)
ANNIKA: Zoom, zoom.
MAGNUS: Ah, ah, ah, put down the cube, Muffin. It's not a toy.
ANNIKA: I won't crash it.
MAGNUS: Come here, Daddy wants to talk to you. Now, remember when I said that you, me and Mommy were going on a very long voyage?
ANNIKA: Ah ha.
MAGNUS: Well, we're leaving tomorrow and we won't see Earth for quite a while.
ANNIKA: Are we going to see the Borg?
MAGNUS: If we're lucky.
ANNIKA: Do the Borg have kids, too?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows. We'll be the first humans to study them up close.
ANNIKA: What do they look like?
MAGNUS: We're not sure exactly, but we think they might look a lot like us, but with technology inside their bodies.
ANNIKA: Cy-ber-netic?
MAGNUS: Mmm hmm.
ANNIKA: Are they friendly?
MAGNUS: Well, they're different. They don't talk like us, or even think like us, but we're hoping to make friends one day.
ANNIKA: I hope so, too, Daddy.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32623.5: we've been tracking stray readings for nearly eight months now, but there's still no sign of a vessel. I'm beginning to wonder if the Borg are nothing more than rumour and sensor echoes.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Magnus.
MAGNUS: We have to keep moving. If we take the replicators offline and run environmental systems at half power, we can go another twenty light years before refuelling.
ERIN: We should refuel now. The nearest dilithium is in an asteroid field just ten days from here.
MAGNUS: That's ten days we can't afford to lose. We're getting close. If we stop now, we might as well just turn around and go home.
ERIN: Home, to what? We have deviated from our flight plan, crossed the Neutral Zone, disobeyed a direct order to return. Our colleagues obviously think we are insane. We have burned our bridges, Magnus.
(Annika enters.)
ANNIKA: I can't sleep.
MAGNUS: Come here. Why can't Annika sleep? The greatest scientific mystery of our time.
ERIN: I have a hypothesis. Her noisy parents are keeping her up.
MAGNUS: Hmm. Sounds plausible.  
(Beep, beep.)
ERIN: Tri-quantum waves, six hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow.
MAGNUS: Subspace disruptions, field magnitude two point nine teracochranes and rising. Annika, bed.
ERIN: Power utilisation curve is highly symmetric.
MAGNUS: Artificial source probability point nine eight. (to Annika) Now. It's got to be a transwarp conduit. Nothing else could generate these readings. I'm taking us closer.
ERIN: It's a Borg Cube, two thousand kilometres starboard.
MAGNUS: I've got a visual.
ERIN: It's massive. Twenty eight cubic kilometres, hundred and twenty nine thousand lifeforms on board. We're being scanned. They haven't altered course.
MAGNUS: This could prove our theory. They ignore any lifeform until they consider it a threat, or a target. They're moving off.
ERIN: Let's match their course and speed. Keep a distance of five million kilometres.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven of Nine to the bridge.  
SEVEN: On my way.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Have we been detected?
KIM: No, ma'am.
TUVOK: I have a visual.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
(The Borg Sphere has bits missing.)
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they took a real beating.
JANEWAY: They could still pose a threat. Let's not get too close. Match their course and speed. Keep a distance of ten million kilometres.  
(Seven enters.)
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven, scan the vessel. I want to know their current status.
SEVEN: Their weapons array is regenerating, but shields and transwarp drive are still offline.
JANEWAY: How long until they have transwarp?
SEVEN: Approximately seventy two hours. 
JANEWAY: We may not get this opportunity again, and I don't intend to miss it. Whatever it takes, double shifts, round the clock simulations, I want to be ready.
(Seven is walking through the Borg Sphere carrying a pattern enhancer, and Janeway is behind her with a phaser rifle. Tuvok and Kim are another team. The clock is down to 1:36 and counting.)
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to away teams. You're six seconds behind schedule.

[Borg Sphere]

TUVOK: We are at the shield matrix. Stand by.
KIM: The primary shield generator. I've got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges. Here, there and there.
(Seven and Janeway arrive at their target.)

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: You've got fifty five seconds.

[Borg Sphere]

TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway. Charges set. We're returning to the transport coordinates.
SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.
TUVOK: Activate the charges.
JANEWAY: Bridge, their shields are down. Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Tom?
PARIS: I've got a lock.

[Borg Sphere]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Target obtained.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: You're out of time.

[Borg Sphere]

(Tuvok shoots one Borg, Kim another. But when it is Janeway's turn, the phaser rifle has no effect.)
JANEWAY: They've adapted. This way. (Seven doesn't move.) Seven!
(Tuvok spots Janeway and Seven approaching.)
TUVOK: Bridge, stand by for transport.
KIM: Hurry!
TUVOK: Energise.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I've got them. Transporter room one.
(Three Borg arrive on the bridge.)
CHAKOTAY: Beam them out of here.
PARIS: I can't get a lock. They've adapted to our transport frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme, both holodecks. What happened?
PARIS: They tapped into our transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to holodeck two. We got the transwarp coil

[Holodeck - Transporter room]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: But we also picked up some uninvited guests.
JANEWAY: What was our time?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Two minutes twelve seconds.
JANEWAY: Twelve seconds too late. Once we disable their sensor grid we only have two minutes until it regenerates.

[Holodeck - Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Did you run into any problems?

[Holodeck - Transporter room]

TUVOK: None.
SEVEN: We were efficient.
KIM: What if we beam directly into the transwarp chamber?
JANEWAY: There's too much shielding.
TUVOK: Perhaps we could modify our transporters?
JANEWAY: I've already explored that option. It won't work. 
KIM: Twelve seconds. Might as well be an eternity.
SEVEN: The Hansens. They were able to remain inside a Borg cube for several hours without being detected.
KIM: How?
SEVEN: I'm not certain.
JANEWAY: Well, keep investigating.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: We've run enough simulations for one day. Let's work on refining our tactics, anything we can do to shave a few more seconds off our little heist. Computer, end programme.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I don't know about you but I'm glad to be back on Voyager. Borg vessels make my skin crawl.
SEVEN: It was a holodeck recreation.
JANEWAY: Close enough. We just spent the last three hours dodging drones. It didn't bother you?
SEVEN: Your point.
JANEWAY: You seemed a little nervous in there.
SEVEN: The last time I was on a Borg vessel, I was a drone. The recreation was unsettling.
JANEWAY: You were reluctant to look at your parents' research and now I sense you're a little reluctant to go on this mission. Maybe I'm pushing you too fast.
SEVEN: I'll adapt.
JANEWAY: It's easier said than done. It's been over two years since you came face to face with the Collective. Are you sure you're up to it? I need everybody working at peak efficiency.
SEVEN: You doubt my ability to function.
JANEWAY: No, I'm simply voicing my concerns.
SEVEN: They are unjustified.
JANEWAY: I hope so, because the next time we won't be on the holodeck.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Cargo Bay two]

(Seven opens another box of PADDs. She gets a visitor.)
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I had a bad dream. Can I stay with you for a while?
SEVEN: Where is your mother?
NAOMI: She's working in Engineering, and Neelix is on a duty shift. Please? I won't bother you.
SEVEN: Very well.
NAOMI: It looked just like this.
SEVEN: What did?
NAOMI: In my dream. There was Borg stuff everywhere.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
NAOMI: I went on the mission. The one my Mom told me about, the Borg Sphere? But it didn't work. Everybody got assimilated.
SEVEN: Nightmares are caused by irrational fear. They're not real. They can't damage you. Try to ignore it.
NAOMI: Mom said we're going to steal something.
SEVEN: A transwarp coil.
NAOMI: Will you be on the Sphere?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Are you scared?
SEVEN: We will succeed.
NAOMI: But what if you don't? What if they make you a drone again?
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, you agreed not to bother me.
NAOMI: What's it like to be a drone? Does it hurt?
SEVEN: You will terminate this line of questioning.
NAOMI: Do the Borg have kids? What do they look like? Are they friendly?
SEVEN: Return to your quarters immediately.
NAOMI: Resistance is futile.
(A Borg node pops out of Naomi's face. A drone steps out of a regeneration chamber.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Security. Intruder alert.
QUEEN [OC]: They can't hear you.
SEVEN: Who are you?
QUEEN [OC]: I am the Borg. Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one, you've become weak.
SEVEN: This is a dream. I'm regenerating.
QUEEN [OC]: It's not a dream. We've accessed your neural transceiver. Our thoughts are one. We know about Voyager's plan to invade the Sphere. It will fail.
SEVEN: If that's true, then why haven't you assimilated them?
QUEEN [OC]: We've come to make you an offer. Rejoin the Collective and we'll spare Voyager.
SEVEN: Why me?
QUEEN [OC]: Because you are unique.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32629.4: after three months of tracking our Borg cube, the vessel entered a transwarp conduit. We followed in its wake. Our sensors tell us we've travelled all the way to the Delta quadrant, the Borg's native territory.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Magnus, you're breaking up.
MAGNUS [on monitor]: Just some bio-electric interference. Stand by. Is that better?
ERIN: Much. How's Junior?

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: He took a real beating when that plasma conduit blew out. He's regenerating. Wait a minute, something's happening. Bill and Needle Fingers just arrived. This is odd. They're making repairs to Junior.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: I thought drones from different subunits didn't interact.
MAGNUS [OC]: Looks like we were wrong.

[Borg Cube]

(Junior falls to the deck.)
MAGNUS: They deactivated him.
ERIN [OC]: Why?
MAGNUS: Maybe he was too badly damaged. They're dismantling him. They must be salvaging the components.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Your bio-dampener is losing power. It's time to come home.
MAGNUS [OC]: I've got another minute or so. Stand by.

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: We may not get another chance to observe this behaviour.

[Medical lab]

SEVEN: It prevented the Borg from detecting them. They referred to it as a bio-dampener. The device creates a field around the body, which simulates the physiometric conditions within a Borg vessel.
TUVOK: Camouflage.
SEVEN: Precisely.
TUVOK: We need four of these devices. How soon can you replicate them?
EMH: I'll have to tailor each unit to its user's physiology. A few hours at least.
TUVOK: Begin immediately. I'll inform the Captain.
EMH: Ingenious design.
SEVEN: The Hansens were resourceful.
EMH: Sounds like you're warming up to your folks.
SEVEN: It was merely an observation.
EMH: This is an important stage of your social development, Seven. Try not to think of it as simply a research project, but as an exploration of how you were raised.
SEVEN: My parents underestimated the Collective. They were destroyed. Because of their arrogance, I was raised by Borg.

Captain's log, supplemental. Operation Fort Knox is ready to proceed. All departments are standing by and I've given the order to begin at oh six hundred hours.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Coffee? You look like you could use some.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: It's a human vice you might want to try one day. Keeps you sharp.
SEVEN: One day.
JANEWAY: I've been fine-tuning our game plan for tomorrow morning, and I've decided to reassign you to the bridge.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm concerned about Voyager's safety, and if the Sphere decides to attack I'll need your expertise at Tactical.
SEVEN: I should be on the away team.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna will do just fine in your place.
SEVEN: You may encounter unexpected obstacles. Forcefields, encryption codes. I'm the only member of this crew who can anticipate them.
JANEWAY: You underestimate the rest of us.
SEVEN: And you underestimate the Borg.
JANEWAY: This is more than just a question of tactics. I'm concerned about your well-being, and your ability to perform on this mission.
SEVEN: Your concern is unwarranted.
JANEWAY: Is it? I'm not the only one who's worried about you. Chakotay, Neelix, the Doctor, we've all noticed changes in your behaviour. You are preoccupied, agitated, and you're making mistakes. Don't get me wrong. I appreciate your efforts, and we couldn't have come this far without your help, but it's obviously taken its toll. If I'd realised how those journals were going to affect you, I never would have pushed you to read them. And I'm not about to ask you to face the Collective in your present frame of mind.
SEVEN: The past several days have been difficult. But I must join the away team, and I assure you I will not make another mistake.
JANEWAY: I've made my decision, Seven.
SEVEN: If I don't go, this mission will fail.
JANEWAY: You sound awfully certain about that.
SEVEN: I know the Borg.
JANEWAY: And I know you. There's more to what you're saying. What's wrong?
SEVEN: Over the past two years, I have become familiar with the individuals on this vessel. Voyager is my Collective now. Your survival is important to me. I am willing to risk my own well-being if it increases our chances of success. Assign me to the away team. Please. (Janeway nods.) Thank you.
JANEWAY: Seven. You've made remarkable progress as an individual and as a member of this crew. For what it's worth, Voyager wouldn't be the same without you.

BORG [OC]: A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid zero three. Activate.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG [OC]: Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, class two shuttlecraft. Three lifeforms.

[Bridge]

TORRES: The Sphere is maintaining course.
CHAKOTAY: Move the shuttle in closer.
PARIS: The Borg are still ignoring it.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Transporter room two.

[Transporter Room]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: They're not taking the bait.
JANEWAY: Shuttle status?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All systems go. False bioreadings are holding steady.
KIM: How about a phaser shot across their bow. Might grab their attention.
SEVEN: No. The shuttle would be perceived as a threat and they'd destroy it.
JANEWAY: Commander, increase the energy output of the shuttle's warp profile.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: That should present a more inviting target.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG [OC]: Warp signature detected. Prepare for assimilation. Relevant technology. Engage tractor pulse.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They've got it. They're pulling it in toward a docking port along the central radius. Five hundred metres, two hundred. They're dropping shields.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.
TORRES: They're in.
EMH: Bio-dampeners are stable. They're as good as invisible.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere?
TORRES: The shields are back up. They're assimilating the shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a sensor lock on the away team. Maintain course.

[Borg Sphere]

(Seven is given an image of herself as a Borg in a regeneration chamber.)
QUEEN [OC]: Never forget who you are.
JANEWAY: Seven, are you all right?
SEVEN: Proceed.
KIM: Primary shield generator. Got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges here, there and there.
(Janeway and Seven arrive at the transwarp coil.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway, charges set. Returning to transport coordinates.
SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.
TUVOK: Activate the charges.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Lock onto the coil and energise.

[Borg Sphere]

(Seven watches the coil being beamed away.)
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Target obtained. 
QUEEN [OC]: Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Seven, keep moving!
SEVEN: No. I wish to stay. I intend to rejoin the Collective.
JANEWAY: I can't let you do that.
SEVEN: You have no choice.
JANEWAY: Keep moving. That's an order.
(A forcefield flickers into existence between Janeway and Seven.)
SEVEN: Go!
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to away team.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The sphere has detected Voyager. They've altered course to intercept and they're charging weapons. We've got to get you out of there now.
PARIS: Four hundred thousand kilometres and closing.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to weapons.

[Borg Sphere]

JANEWAY: I'm not leaving without you.
SEVEN: Then you will be assimilated.
(Janeway shoots an approaching drone, then runs. Two drones flank Seven.)
TUVOK: They can see us.
KIM: How?
TUVOK: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Bridge, we're in position. Three to beam up.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Three?
JANEWAY: Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Where's Seven?
JANEWAY: She had a change of heart. Report.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere's changing course. They're retreating.
TORRES: They're bringing the remaining transwarp coils online.
JANEWAY: Pursuit course. Target their propulsion system.
PARIS: They're gone, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

(The Sphere comes out of transwarp and flies inside a giant spacestation. Seven is escorted to a large central chamber. A platform is lowered which contains the head, shoulders and spinal cord of a Borg female, but without cybernetic implants except for tubes and a unit growing out of the back of its head. The rest of the body is assembled to receive it. It flexes its shoulders and steps out to touch Seven's face.)
QUEEN: Welcome home.

To be continued...

