S7 E10
Flesh and Blood Part 2
Stardate: Unknown / 54337.5
Original Airdate: 29 November 2000

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: We have their shield frequencies. We should target their bridge.
EMH: You're talking about my friends.
WEISS: Your friends are trying to destroy us. We should kill them.
EMH: You gave me your word.
IDEN: I did. We'll find another way.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Their shields are down. 
JANEWAY: Now, B'Elanna.
(A beam comes off the deflector and onto Iden's ship.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

(Things go bang.)
KEJAL: They're emitting the pulse on a triaxillating bandwidth.
IDEN: Reconfigure the tracking beam to the inverse frequency and fire.
(Energy goes back up to Voyager.)

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: B'Elanna, report.

[Engineering]

TORRES: They're creating a feedback surge. I don't understand how they could've isolated our frequency so quickly.
SEVEN: The main deflector is overloading.
TORRES: Shut it down.
SEVEN: I can't.
TORRES: Keep trying. If we can't block the surge, the core is going to breach.
(The deflector dish starts to break up. Lots of things go Bang! all over the ship. An electric discharge hits one engineer. Torres works by the core.)
SEVEN: Get down, Lieutenant!
TORRES: Not until I get this forcefield online.
(The forcefield activates around the warp core just as Torres gets hit by a discharge.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

KEJAL: They're adrift.
WEISS: We should go to warp.
IDEN: Not yet. Scan Voyager for a Klingon lifesign.
EMH: What are you doing?
KEJAL: One detected.
IDEN: Get a transporter lock.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Help me get her to Sickbay.
(Torres is beamed away.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

IDEN: Take us to warp. Will she be all right?
EMH: She needs to be in Voyager's Sickbay.
IDEN: You can treat her here.
EMH: Why have you done this?
IDEN: You said she was an expert in holo-technology.
EMH: And that justifies abducting her?
IDEN: We're in a desperate situation. The Hirogen are hunting us and so are your people.
EMH: I trusted you.
IDEN: I could have destroyed Voyager while the shields were down, but I didn't. You've been trying to convince me that all organics aren't alike. I'm giving Lieutenant Torres a chance to prove you right.
EMH: Do you honestly expect her to be sympathetic after what you've done?
IDEN: You weren't very sympathetic at first.
EMH: I came here by choice. And I'm beginning to think it was a mistake.
IDEN: It wasn't. I don't want you to regret it, not for a moment.
EMH: Then send her back.
IDEN: I will. But not until she's had a chance to decide if she wants to help us.
EMH: And if she refuses?
IDEN: I'll give her an escape pod. Let her return to Voyager. You have my word.

[Engineering]

SEVEN: Engineering systems and main power should be operational soon. The deflector is a different matter.
CHAKOTAY: How long?
SEVEN: Four hours, at least. If Lieutenant Torres were here, she might be able to repair it more efficiently.
JANEWAY: That's high praise coming from you. I'm sure she'd appreciate it.
SEVEN: If she hadn't reinforced the core we'd all be dead.
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand how they managed to counteract the pulse so easily.
TUVOK: I believe I can answer that. According to sensor logs, they calibrated their feedback surge to the exact inverse of our pulse frequency.
JANEWAY: It was either a lucky guess or they gained access to our tactical data. The Doctor.
TUVOK: He sent an encrypted transmission from Sickbay, then transported himself to their ship.
JANEWAY: Chakotay?

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I should have seen this coming.
CHAKOTAY: You had no way of knowing the Doctor would do this.
JANEWAY: Are you sure? He was so adamant bout helping those holograms. I should have been paying closer attention.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying it was a mistake to reject his plan?
JANEWAY: The mistake was not running a diagnostic on his programme the minute he came back to this ship.
CHAKOTAY: You think these holograms manipulated him somehow?
JANEWAY: He was on their ship for days. For all we know, they reconfigured his entire matrix.
CHAKOTAY: There is another possibility. He may have done what he did because he genuinely believes in their cause.
JANEWAY: I can accept that the Doctor has sympathy for these people. But I can't accept that he would deliberately risk the lives of this entire crew. We're his family.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe that's how he's started to think of these holograms.

[Iden's ship - lab]

TORRES: You can tell this Iden I don't need time to think it over. I'll take the escape pod now.
EMH: You're in no condition to pilot a spacecraft.
TORRES: Then you can do it.
EMH: I'm not going back.
(The penny drops.)
TORRES: You helped them escape.
EMH: I couldn't just stand by while Captain Janeway tried to deactivate them.
TORRES: Did you also help them kidnap me?
EMH: No, I didn't know they were going to do that. I'm sorry.
TORRES: You can apologise later. Right now we've got to get out of here.
EMH: I don't think I could go back even if I wanted to. Not after what I've done.
TORRES: What's your alternative?
EMH: I can try to make a new life with the holograms.
TORRES: I don't believe I'm hearing this.
EMH: We share a common heritage. I understand them in ways you never could.
TORRES: You're part of a crew. You can't just switch allegiances when you develop sympathy for someone else.
EMH: Isn't that what you did when you joined the Maquis?
TORRES: That was different.
EMH: How? You saw people who were being oppressed and you came to their defence. That's exactly what I've done.
TORRES: Look, I am no fan of the Hirogen. They've obviously been abusing these holograms.
EMH: Then why not help them?
TORRES: For one thing, I'm their prisoner.
EMH: They'll let you go, as soon as you're well enough.
TORRES: You really believe that?
EMH: If I didn't, I wouldn't be asking for your help. They don't want you to fight for them. They just want you to modify some technology so they can live in peace. You'd be helping to stop the violence. Just talk to them. Decide for yourself.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: They've been in the lab for two hours.
IDEN: It's taking time for her injuries to heal. Organics aren't as resilient as we are.
WEISS: She's an engineer, Iden. For all we know, she's trying to sabotage the ship. At least let me see what they're doing.
IDEN: We can trust the Doctor.
WEISS: Even after you kidnapped his friend?
IDEN: He understands why I had to do that.
WEISS: I hope you're right.
IDEN: You need to have a little more faith, my friend.
WEISS: Not all of us were programmed with your, er, your spiritual beliefs.
(The EMH helps Torres into the room. She sees all the different races represented, including a Romulan.)
TORRES: It looks like an Alpha Quadrant summit in here.
IDEN: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. Please excuse my crew. They're not comfortable with organics.
TORRES: I can't say I'm very comfortable myself.
IDEN: The Doctor tells me you're an accomplished engineer.
TORRES: He speaks highly of you, too. He seems to be easily impressed.
EMH: You'll have to forgive her. She's
IDEN: It's all right. I understand you're angry. I'm hoping once we get to know each other you'll feel differently.
TORRES: I'm not here to make friends.
IDEN: We're not asking for your friendship, just your expertise.
EMH: I told her about the photonic field generator.
IDEN: Will you at least take a look at it?
TORRES: I'll look. But I'm not making any promises.
IDEN: This is Kejal. She'll assist you.

[Astrometrics lab]  

JANEWAY: How long before the Hirogen get here?
PARIS: Less than ten minutes.
JANEWAY: Any luck locating the holograms?
PARIS: They seem to be operating in some sort of stealth mode. Their warp signature disappears in grid nine three six.
JANEWAY: They could be anywhere by now.
DONIK: Hirogen sensors can detect residual ion emissions. I might be able to modify yours to do the same.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but you and the rest of our Hirogen guests are going to be back with your own people in a few minutes.
DONIK: I was hoping to stay here.
JANEWAY: Those hunters are going to want you with them.
DONIK: Hunters don't have much use for cowards.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry you're not expecting a warm welcome, but I'm not going to antagonise your superiors.
PARIS: With all due respect Captain, I'd like to get my wife back in one piece. We can use all the help we can get.
JANEWAY: It won't do B'Elanna any good if we get into a fight with the Hirogen.
DONIK: If the hunters find the holograms before you do, they'll be slaughtered.
JANEWAY: Why are you suddenly concerned about the holograms?
DONIK: I modified their programmes. What's happened to them, the people they have killed, it's my fault.
JANEWAY: There's plenty of blame to go around. There would have been nothing for you to modify if I hadn't shared our database.
DONIK: If you hadn't, I'd have become a hunter, like my father and his father. Instead, I had a chance to learn, become an engineer. Please, Captain, let me stay and help you.

[Bridge]

ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen]: When I told you to return my people, I meant all of them.
JANEWAY: Mister Donik's offered to help us modify our scanners to track the holograms.
BETA [on viewscreen]: We don't share tracking technology.
JANEWAY: That's not very considerate, after the help we gave you.
BETA [on viewscreen] We're finished cooperating. Return him now!
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen] Let her keep the coward.
BETA [on viewscreen] We can't do that.
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen] Quiet!

[Hirogen ship]

(The Alpha knocks down the Beta.)
ALPHA 2: We're wasting time. This is my hunt now. If you go anywhere near the hologram ship, you can consider yourselves prey.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: They've gone to warp.
PARIS: We're not letting them intimidate us, are we?
JANEWAY: I think you know me a little better than that. Harry, keep a sensor lock on them.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long will it take to modify our scanners?
DONIK: I haven't even had a chance to study the schematics.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me we don't have a lot of time.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen have better tracking abilities than we do. We'll let them find the holograms for us.
CHAKOTAY: The hunters will attack them as soon as they're in weapons range.
JANEWAY: Not if we disable them first.
KIM: You heard what they said, Captain. They're going to attack us if we get anywhere near them.
JANEWAY: Not if we don't know we're there.
(Donik goes to Tuvok's station.)
DONIK: May I? Hirogen vessels produce an ion wake approximately five thousand metres long. Inside it, there's too much interference for their sensors to detect anything.
JANEWAY A blind spot.
TUVOK: How do you propose we reach this wake without being discovered?
DONIK: I know their scanning frequencies.
JANEWAY: We'd only need to mask our signature long enough to get into the wake.
TUVOK: Even if we succeeded, which is far from certain, Voyager's in no condition to fight one of their vessels. Much less two.
JANEWAY: We'll have the element of surprise, Mister Tuvok. Not to mention a Tactical Officer who I'm sure will execute a precision strike.

[Iden's ship - lab]

KEJAL: I've been able to reconfigure the data core but it's still not capable of supporting our matrices.
TORRES: That's because you haven't got enough optronic capacity.
KEJAL: Do you know how to increase it?
TORRES: Yes.
KEJAL: But you're not going to tell me.
TORRES: I haven't decided yet. What are you staring at?
KEJAL: I've never met a Klingon before. Not an organic one, anyway.
TORRES: What do you think?
KEJAL: You don't appear vicious or bloodthirsty.
TORRES: Sorry to disappoint you but, that's a stereotype. We're not all vicious and bloodthirsty. And not every Cardassian is arrogant and cruel.
KEJAL: You don't like Cardassians.
TORRES: Let's just say I've had some bad experiences with them.
KEJAL: Is that why you won't help me?
TORRES: I'm not helping you because I have no idea what you're going to do with this technology once you've got it working.
KEJAL: We're going to build a home.
TORRES: Well, let's say I believe you. What if you decide you like somebody else's home better? Are you going to try to take it from them?
KEJAL: Why would we do that?
TORRES: Because that's what the Cardassians did.
KEJAL: I'm not a Cardassian, I'm a hologram.
TORRES: Programmed with Cardassian traits.
KEJAL: Such as arrogance and cruelty? What did you call those? Stereotypes?
TORRES: I may not know you, but I know what you were designed to be.
KEJAL: Prey.
TORRES: That's right. Cunning prey that'll do anything to survive.
KEJAL: We're more than that now.
TORRES: It's not easy to change who you are. Trust me.
KEJAL: Nothing about our existence has ever been easy, Lieutenant.
TORRES: No, I suppose it hasn't.
KEJAL: Besides, making a new life isn't a choice for us. It's a necessity.
TORRES: Let's take a look at this field generator.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

IDEN: Reviewing your memory files?
EMH: I beg your pardon?
IDEN: You were lost in thought.
EMH: I suppose I was.
IDEN: You're having doubts. It's understandable. You've taken a big step.
EMH: In the right direction, I hope.  
IDEN: When I first escaped, there were days I actually missed the Alpha who hunted me.
EMH: He was trying to kill you.
IDEN: Yes. But being his prey was the only life I'd ever known. We all cling to what's familiar.
EMH: I'm considering returning with Lieutenant Torres when she's ready.
IDEN: Do you actually expect your crew to welcome you back? Let me show you something.

[Iden's ready room]

(Iden calls up an image on a pentagonal monitor.)
IDEN: We call this planet Ha'Dara. It's Bajoran for home of light.
EMH: Very poetic.
IDEN: We're going to install the generators in the southern continent.
EMH: It's Y class. Toxic atmosphere, sulphuric deserts, no trees, no life at all.
IDEN: You're still thinking like an organic. We don't need an atmosphere, we don't need water. What we need us protection from our enemies.
EMH: The Hirogen won't be able to follow you here.
IDEN: Us, Doctor. Imagine living in a world where everything is designed to meet our needs. A home of light.
EMH: You certainly won't need a physician. What would I do there?
IDEN: Anything you want.
(An alarm sounds.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: We've been scanned by the Hirogen.
IDEN: How many vessels?
WEISS: Two. Both Venatic class.
IDEN: Distance?
WEISS: Half a light year.
IDEN: Time to intercept?
WEISS: Less than two hours.
EMH: I thought we were in stealth mode.
WEISS: They're hunters, Doctor. They were bound to pick up our trail eventually.
EMH: Can we make it to Ha'Dara?
IDEN: No. There's no point in going there until those field generators are on online.
EMH: What are we going to do?
IDEN: You can't kill what you can't find.
(They fly into a nebula.)

[Hirogen ship]

BETA: I've lost them.
ALPHA 2: Recalibrate the tracking scanners.
BETA: There's too much radiation.
ALPHA 2: Clever prey.
BETA: They'll come out eventually. We'll wait.
ALPHA 2: No. Hail the other vessel. Tell them to circle the perimeter. We'll go in and drive the holograms out.

[Bridge]

(Mere metres from the Hirogen exhaust ports.)
PARIS: Not exactly the scenic route, is it.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here for the view.
JANEWAY: I just hope we're following the right ship.
DONIK: They wouldn't have entered the nebula unless they detected the holograms.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: It's just the turbulence from the wake.
JANEWAY: Harry, reinforce the inertial dampers.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: I'm losing helm control.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to the thrusters.
PARIS: It's not enough. We're slipping out of the wake.
JANEWAY: Ease us back in, Tom. You can do it.
PARIS: I'm trying.
(He succeeds.)
PARIS: I take back what I said. It's the prettiest thing I've seen all day.
CHAKOTAY: Did they detect us?
TUVOK: I don't believe so.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

(Explosions nearby rock the ship.)
EMH: They've found us.
IDEN: No, they haven't, but they're trying to. Evasive manoeuvres.
WEISS: Aye, sir.
IDEN: Bridge

[Iden's ship - lab]

IDEN [OC]: To Kejal.
KEJAL: Go ahead.
IDEN [OC] What's your status?
KEJAL: We're almost ready to begin testing the generator.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

TORRES [OC]: What's going on?
IDEN: The Hirogen are just giving you a little incentive to work faster.

[Iden's ship - lab]

(Later, Torres powers up the generator. Kejal flickers.)
TORRES: Hang on. I'm realigning your matrix. How's your mobility?
KEJAL: Excellent. I have complete
TORRES: There's a phase variance in your vocal processors. Try it now.
KEJAL: Maybe we should. That's much better. Thank you.
TORRES: Don't thank me yet. This thing is only supporting your matrix. Getting it to handle dozens is a different story.
KEJAL: I have no doubt we'll succeed.
TORRES: Typical.
KEJAL: What?
TORRES: Self-confidence. Another Cardassian attribute. What are you planning to do with your time once these generators are up and running?
KEJAL: I haven't thought about it.
TORRES: You're the closest thing this crew has to an engineer. Your friends are going to depend on you.
KEJAL: Iden has always taken care of us.
TORRES: It may be the warriors who get the glory, but it's the engineers who build societies. Don't forget that.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

EMH: How much longer can we hide?
IDEN: Hopefully until they get those generators online.
EMH: Then what?
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, try to outrun the Hirogen.
EMH: I've been thinking about what you said. That I can do anything I want when we get there.
IDEN: You have an idea?
EMH: Quite a few, actually. For one thing, I'd like to expose our people to art and music.
IDEN: You'll make an excellent teacher.
EMH: I think a more appropriate title would be Minister of Culture.
IDEN: Consider it yours.
EMH: You know, I'm something of an expert on Alpha Quadrant art. Verdi, da Vinci, T'Leel of Vulcan...
IDEN: You're talking about organic cultures.
EMH: Well, yes, I suppose.
IDEN: We'll want to develop a culture of our own.
EMH: I agree, but we can't ignore where we came from.
IDEN: I don't want to emulate our oppressors.
EMH: What about your religion?
IDEN: I'm creating a new faith.
EMH: Based on what?
IDEN: In the dark times, we were enslaved by men of flesh, But then another man, a man of light arose and slew the mighty Alpha. He gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom.
EMH: And on the seventh day, Iden created Ha'Dara.
IDEN: They'll pray to you as well. The Great Healer, the Father of us all.
EMH: Being appreciated is one thing, but I have no interest in being worshipped.
IDEN: Prophets are chosen, Doctor. It's a blessing and a burden.
WEISS: We detected a vessel.
IDEN: Hirogen?
WEISS: No, the Nuu'bari. I intercepted one of their comm. transmissions.
IDEN Origin?
WEISS: Two million kilometres outside the nebula.
IDEN: Set a course to intercept.
EMH: What are you doing?
IDEN: I told you there are holograms throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari use them as labourers. We're going to liberate them.
EMH: The Hirogen will see us as soon as we leave the nebula.
IDEN: And he gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom.
(This is getting needlessly messianic. Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, by Douglas Adams - when trying to prise the answer to the ultimate question out of Deep Thought.)

[Iden's ship - lab]

EMH: B'Elanna, how's the work coming?
TORRES: Pretty well. I've got to admit you were right about these people.
EMH: I hope so.
TORRES: You hope? It's a little late to be having second thoughts.
EMH: Iden's been
TORRES: Iden's been what?
EMH: Let's just say he's exhibiting some of the classic signs of megalomania.
TORRES: He wouldn't be the first hologram with an ego.
EMH: If that were all it was, I wouldn't be so worried.
TORRES: What is bothering you?
EMH: Apparently he sees himself as some kind of spiritual leader, and he's trying to enlarge his flock.

[Hirogen ship]

ALPHA 2: Load another charge. Double the yield. Fire.
BETA: Still nothing.
ALPHA 2: Ironic, isn't it. Our most elusive prey is our own creation.
BETA: The other hunting vessel is hailing. They've detected the holograms on the far side of the nebula.
ALPHA 2: Intercept course.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They're increasing speed and altering course.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found something.
JANEWAY: Stand by weapons.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

TORRES: You kidnapped me. I guess I shouldn't be surprised you lied to me, too.
IDEN: Nobody lied to you.
TORRES: You said you only wanted to make a home for yourselves.
IDEN: That's correct.
TORRES: When? After you liberate every hologram in the sector?
WEISS: They're in visual range.
IDEN: On screen. Lifesigns?
WEISS: Two organic, three photonic.
IDEN: Hail them.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: Good day to you.
IDEN: You have three holograms aboard your ship.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: Yes?
IDEN: Lower your shields so we can transfer them to our databanks.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: I don't understand.
IDEN: Lower your shields or we'll do it by force.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: These holograms are the property of the Mining Consortium. I can't.
IDEN: They're no one's property. You see how organics think? Arm phasers.
EMH: You can't just fire at them.
IDEN: How do you expect me to disable their shields?
(Transmission ends.)
WEISS: They're powering warp engines.
IDEN: Disable them.
WEISS: Their shields are down.
IDEN: Transfer the holograms.
KEJAL: We have them.
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: You won't get away. Consortium security will have every patrol ship in the sector searching for you.
(Transmission ends.)
IDEN: Arm forward torpedoes.
TORRES: What the hell are you doing?
WEISS: Torpedoes armed.
KEJAL: Iden.
IDEN: Not now. Target their warp core.
TORRES: No!  
(Torres lunges at Weiss, but she is dragged off him.)
IDEN: Fire!
(The Nuu'bari ship goes KaBOOM!)
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, maximum warp.
EMH: You've just killed two innocent people.
IDEN: They were enslaving holograms. I'd hardly call them innocent.
TORRES: You already had the holograms. There was no reason to commit murder.
IDEN: Take her to the lab.
TORRES: This is the leader you admire so much?
(Torres is taken away.)
EMH: Those miners were no threat to you.
IDEN: You heard them. They were going to warn their authorities, organise a hunting party.
EMH: Listen to yourself. You still believe all organics are like the Hirogen.
IDEN: One way or another, they are. You just can't see it because you lived among them for so long.
EMH: What you can't see is that you've become no better than the hunters. Lieutenant Torres and I will take that escape pod now.
IDEN: You don't realise what you'd be giving up, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, I do.
IDEN: We can't launch a pod at warp. You'll have to wait until we get to Ha'Dara. Bring our new friends online. Something tells me they'll be a little more grateful than the Doctor.

[Iden's ship - lab]

BREEN: (unintelligible)
(The EMH sits next to Torres and they whisper to each other.)
EMH: I can't tell you how sorry I am that I got you involved in this.
TORRES: We can assign blame later. Right now we've got to find a way out of here.
EMH: You don't think he'll give us an escape pod? No, I don't suppose he will.
KEJAL: I need her assistance.
EMH: Do you really think it's wise to help her?
TORRES: I'm hoping she'll help us.
KEJAL: These matrices are incompatible with our emitters.
TORRES: You need to modify their projection subroutines. I hope these holograms appreciate what you're doing for them, considering it cost two people their lives.
KEJAL: Iden did what he thought was necessary.
TORRES: Do you believe it was necessary?
KEJAL: It wasn't my decision.
TORRES: Why does Iden get to make all the decisions? You can take control.
KEJAL: How?
TORRES: You're the engineer, remember? Take Iden offline.
(Iden enters.)
IDEN: Where are our new holograms?
KEJAL: We're just making some final adjustments.
(The three Nuu'bari holograms appear.)
IDEN: Welcome aboard. I'm Iden. You're free now. There's nothing to be afraid of. I want you to consider this ship your own.
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process command. Please restate.
IDEN: Were their programmes damaged in the transfer?
KEJAL: I don't believe so.
IDEN: Do you have names?
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process inquiry. Please restate.
IDEN: What's wrong with them?
TORRES: Nothing. They're functioning perfectly.
IDEN: I don't understand.
TORRES: They were only programmed with about forty rudimentary subroutines. You killed two living beings to liberate mindless machines.
IDEN: I don't believe that.
KEJAL: Lieutenant Torres is correct.
IDEN: Creating limited program,es is just another form of oppression. Give them whatever enhancements they need.
TORRES: They can't support complex subroutines.
IDEN: They are children of light and I will deliver them to freedom!
WEISS [OC]: Bridge to Iden.
IDEN: Go ahead.
WEISS [OC]: We're approaching Ha'Dara.
IDEN: What's the status of the generator?
KEJAL: I'd like to run some additional tests.
IDEN: There isn't time. Stand by to deploy them as soon as we're in range. And restrain her.
(A forcefield is generated around Torres. The EMH leaves.)

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

IDEN: Time to orbit?
WEISS: Less than two minutes.
IDEN: Stand by weapons.
CARDASSIAN: Aye, sir.
EMH: Iden, let B'Elanna go.
IDEN: I can't do that.
EMH: You gave me your word.
IDEN: That was before she made her prejudice so clear.

[Hirogen ship]

(The two Hirogen ships, and Voyager, are still in warp.)
BETA: The holograms are entering orbit.
ALPHA 2: Charge weapons.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They're dropping out of warp.
JANEWAY: Fire.
(Voyager fires phasers as it leaves the wake.)

[Hirogen ship]

(The Hirogen get up off the deck and clear debris from the consoles.)
BETA: They've disabled our engines, all our weapons.
ALPHA 2: Who?
BETA: Voyager.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Bring us about. Tuvok, target the second vessel.
(Voyager gets in two hits before taking one in return.)
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening.
JANEWAY: Torpedoes, full spread.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: Voyager's disabled both hunting vessels. They've lost shields, weapons.
IDEN: They're defenceless.
WEISS: We should hail Janeway. Thank her.
IDEN: Are the Hirogen within transporter range?
WEISS: I think so. Why?
(Whumph!)
WEISS: That was Voyager. They're trying to disable our shields.
IDEN: Return fire. Get a lock on the hunters. Transport them to the surface.
EMH: They can't survive down there.
IDEN: The Hirogen are more resilient than you think. They'll last long enough.
EMH: For what?
IDEN: For us to hunt them like they hunted us.

[Planet surface]

(The Hirogen struggle to breath.)
ALPHA 2: Follow me.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]

WEISS: There are thirty four hunters on the surface.
IDEN: Take us into low orbit.

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I can't target them through the gases.
PARIS: Then we'll go in after them.
TUVOK: Our shields have been damaged. They won't protect us from the radiation.
JANEWAY: Chakotay. You, Tuvok and Tom take the Flyer.

[Iden's ship - lab]

IDEN: Stand by to transport the field generator.
EMH: First you kill in self-defence, then you murder in cold blood. Now you're going to stage a massacre.
IDEN: The hunters have only themselves to blame.
EMH: So much for evolving beyond your subroutines.
IDEN: You've made a great sacrifice for us, Doctor. We won't forget you in our prayers. Deactivate his programme. Transfer it to the databanks.
TORRES: What are you doing?
(Iden takes the mobile emitter.)
IDEN: Taking precautions. Transfer my programme to the mobile emitter and assemble the crew.

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY: Disable their shields.

[Iden's ship - lab]

IDEN: Transport the generator to the surface, quickly. This time the hunt is ours!

[Planet surface]

IDEN: Darkness will become light.
(The holograms walk through a rock wall into a cave to shoot unarmed Hirogen in the back as they flee.)

[Iden's ship - lab]

TORRES: You don't have to be a part of this.
(Bang!)
KEJAL: I'll let you take the escape pod. You can go back to your people.
TORRES: What about the people being killed on the surface? You've got to transport them back to their ships.
(The forcefield fails.)
KEJAL: They're hunters.
TORRES: You're not.
KEJAL: Your ship has damaged our transporters.
TORRES: Hail them.
KEJAL: Communications are down, too.

[Planet surface]

(The Alpha throws a rock at Weiss. It goes through him.)
ALPHA 2: I won't be taken!
WEISS: Who's the prey now?

[Iden's ship - lab]

TORRES: Are we still tied into the generator controls?
KEJAL: Yes.
TORRES: Then shut down the holograms.
(She does, just as a human, a Breen and a Cardassian are about to kill two Hirogen.)
KEJAL: What about Iden? He's not tied into the generator. He'll kill them all.
TORRES: Can we reactivate the Doctor?
(The EMH appears on the planet, armed with an Hirogen rifle.)

[Delta Flyer]

TUVOK: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate transport.
(Paris greets Torres as she is beamed aboard.)
PARIS: If this marriage is going to work, you've got to cut back on the travelling.
TORRES: The Doctor's on the surface. There's some Hirogen down there, too.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The radiation's making it difficult to get a lock.

[Planet surface]

(The Beta leaps on Iden. They struggle before Iden knocks him down.)
BETA: Defenceless prey makes a poor trophy.
IDEN: I don't collect trophies.
EMH: Put down the weapon.
IDEN: Remember what you once said to me? You're not programmed with killer instinct.
EMH: Hmm. Seems like a long time ago, doesn't it. Put down your weapon.
IDEN: Would you really kill one of your own to save an organic?
EMH: If you've taught me anything, it's that I'm not one of your own.
(Iden raises his weapon to kill the Beta. The EMH zaps Iden to photons and picks up his mobile emitter.)
EMH: Help is on the way.

[Delta Flyer]

TUVOK: I have a lock. Five Hirogen lifesigns and the Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: Beam them up.

Captain's log, stardate 54337.5. The surviving Hirogen have recovered from their injuries, leaving me with a diplomatic dilemma.

[Corridor]

BETA: The hologram's vessel and everything in its database are Hirogen property. I will not leave them behind.
NEELIX: Captain, if I may?
JANEWAY: Of course.
NEELIX: I imagine your people will tell stories about this hunt. The question is, which story will it be? The one about the dying Beta whose life had to be saved by a hologram? Or will it be the tale of the Beta who bravely took over the hunt, killed the holograms and destroyed their ship?

[Transporter room]

NEELIX: You could be a legend.
JANEWAY: On the other hand, you could try to take the holograms' ship but with so few hunters and damaged vessels, you might not survive to tell any stories at all.
BETA: You and your crew would have made worthy prey, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you. I think.
(The Hirogens are beamed out.)
JANEWAY: Transport me to the holograms' vessel.

[Iden's ship - lab]

JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: Iden's programme is unrecoverable. The rest of the holograms are intact in the database.
JANEWAY: I guess that leaves just you. I'm willing to transfer your programme to our holodeck, and keep it active.
KEJAL: This is my home.
JANEWAY: I can't let you go off on your own.
DONIK: She won't be alone. I reprogrammed these holograms once, and it caused suffering on both sides. I'd like a chance to undo some of the damage.
JANEWAY: Wouldn't we all.
TORRES: They've both proven that they can be trusted, Captain.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose I have a right to tell either of you how to live your lives. All I can do is hope that you'll consider the consequences of your actions.
(A short time later, the hologram's ship leaves orbit.)

[Doctor's office]

(The EMH sees Janeway sitting in his chair, and enters from Sickbay.)
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor. I'd hoped I could attribute your behaviour to tampering.
EMH: My programming hasn't been altered.
JANEWAY: Not according to the diagnostics.
EMH: I never intended to put Voyager in danger. If nothing else, you have to believe that.
JANEWAY: Oh, I believe it. But if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that things don't always happen the way we intend.
(The EMH hands over the box containing his mobile emitter.)
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
EMH: If I weren't your only doctor, I imagine you'd confine me to the brig. Confiscating my emitter would be an equivalent to punishment.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure that's appropriate.
EMH: If that's not enough, you can take away my holodeck privileges. And my autonomy protocols.
JANEWAY: You mean turn back the clock to when you were first activated?
EMH: You've given me extraordinary freedom over the years. I've obviously abused it.
JANEWAY: Maybe. Or maybe you've simply become as fallible as those of us who are made of flesh and blood. I'm just as responsible for allowing you to expand your programming as I am for giving technology to the Hirogen. How can I punish you for being who you are?
EMH: I don't know what to say.
JANEWAY: I'd like a complete report on your away mission.
EMH: You'll have it.

